
Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 African daisy Alternaria alternata

Alternaria Leaf Blight is a foliar disease of carrots caused by the fungus Alternaria dauci. Alternaria dauci is included in the porri species group of Alternaria, which is classified for having large conidium and a long, slender filiform beak. Because many of the members of this group have similar morphology, Alternaria dauci has also been classified as formae specialis of carrots, or A. porri f. sp. dauci. It has been well established that the host range of this disease is on cultivated and wild carrot, but it has also been claimed that Alternaria dauci has the ability to infect wild parsnip, celery, and parsley. A study in 2011 by Boedo et al. evaluated the host range of Alternaria dauci in a controlled environment and concluded that several non-carrot species could constitute alternate hosts, such as Ridolfia segetum (corn parsley) and Caucalis tenet (hedge parsley). Despite their findings, reports of A. dauci colonization on non-carrot hosts continues to be debated because the use of Koch's Postulates on recovered isolates of A. dauci is challenging and is rarely reported; in addition, few reports are often made of such infections in field settings.Symptoms of A. dauci appear first as greenish-brown, then water-soaked, and finally necrotic lesions 8–10 days following an infection event. These lesions will appear on carrot leaflets and petioles, and have a characteristic chlorotic, yellow halo. The lesions can be irregularly shaped, and will often appear on older leaves first. Older leaves are the most susceptible to infection; when approximately 40% of the leaf surface area has become infected by Alternaria dauci, the leaf will completely yellow, collapse, and die. It is during extended conditions of warm, moist weather that lesions can coalesce and cause entire tops of carrot plants to die off, a phenomenon that is sometimes mistaken for frost damage. The symptoms of this disease are also commonly confused with Cercospora Leaf Blight of carrots as well as bacterial blight, and microscopic analysis is frequently needed to accurately diagnose the pathogen. A. dauci produces characteristically dark to olive-brown hyphae and elongated conidiophores, with conidia typically borne singly. Petiole infection can also occur without any lesion development on leaflets, and A. dauci can additionally result in damping-off of seedlings, seed stalk blight, and inflorescence infections. These symptoms can significantly reduce yield due to lost photosynthetic activity, prevention of mechanical harvest, and infection of commercial carrot seeds.	 African daisy Alternaria dauci

In fields, symptomatic plants are recognized in patches or rows.  They appear dwarfed, stunted, and brown in comparison to healthy plants. Local symptoms appear above ground, and plant leaves are typically distorted in shape, crinkled, and discolored with hard surfaces. They often have reduced flower size. Diseased plants typically have dead crowns and a shortened internode of the runners.A classic leaf symptom is the appearance of angular, water-soaked lesions between the veins.  The angular appearance results where the lesion edge and vein meet. In leaves with parallel venation, the length of the lesion progresses parallel to the direction of the vein.  As lesions enlarge and leaf damage progresses, symptomatic leaf edges become dry, dead, and crinkled. Because infected strawberry plants are less vigorous in growth, the stolon does not grow well, which results in reduced fruit size and number.  If the nematodes infect early in plant development, specifically when the buds are forming, the plant morphology will be dwarfed and distorted.Once the nematodes destroy most of the leaf tissue, they leave the plant through wounds and natural openings in the leaf to find a new host to infect. The pathogen is easily transmitted through direct contact between the foliage of infected and non-infected plants.  Nematodes can also move over large distances through soil transportation, as a result of human and animal movement, or through insect and bird travel.	 African daisy Aphelenchoides fragariae

This virus was first characterized in cucumbers (Cucumis sativus) showing mosaic symptoms in 1934, hence the name Cucumber mosaic. Since then, it has been found to infect a great variety of other plants. These include other vegetables such as squash, melons, peppers, eggplants, tomatoes, beans, carrots, celery, lettuce, spinach, beets, many ornamentals and bedding plants, such as Narcissus, and various weeds. Its presence has been confirmed on every continent of the world, including Antarctica.Symptoms seen with this virus include leaf mosaic or mottling (Fig. 1), yellowing, ringspots, stunting, and leaf, flower and fruit distortion. CMV also induces a type of symptom on leaves known as the "shoestring" effect on many host species. This effect causes young leaves to appear narrow and the entire plant to be stunted.Specifically, CMV can cause cucumbers to turn pale and bumpy. The leaves of these plants turn mosaic and their rugosity is often changed, making leaves wrinkled and misshapen. Growth of these plants is usually also stunted and produces few flowers. Often, cucumber fruits are oddly shaped, appear gray, and tested bitter. These appearances lead to them being referred to as "white pickles".Tomato plants are usually stunted and have poorly shaped leaves, or "fernleaf", when infected by CMV. Also certain strains of CMV can cause partial or total crop loss. CMV in peppers causes slightly different symptoms than the previously mentioned. Pepper plants often have severe foliar damage, shown as mosaic and necrotic rings. Often the peppers themselves are misshapen and contain chlorotic rings and spots. In celery, CMV causes streaking and spotting and can be often confused with symptoms of the celery mosaic virus. Symptoms of CMV in lettuce, such as chlorosis, plant stunting and often do not properly head, can be very similar to those of lettuce mosaic virus.CMV has also been identified in a lesser extent to a number of plant species. It is found to be a minor virus infecting Allium crops. The virus infection causes extensive malformation on garlic plants, and mild malformation to severe necrotic streaks on onion leaves. The severe damages on garlic plants and difficulty of aphids transmission of garlic isolate, were possible causal for the rare CMV on garlic. Genetically, the two onion isolates from Turkey (CMV-14.3Po and CMV-15.5Po) are highly similar to others isolated from various plant species in Mediterranean, European, and East Asian countries. CMV was also detected on American beautyberry, an important wildlife and pollinator food source plant native to North America.In plant tissue this virus makes characteristic viral inclusion bodies which can be diagnostic. They are hexagonal in shape (Fig. 2) and stain both in a protein stain and a nucleic acid stain. The inclusions can also be rhomboidal, may appear hollow (Fig. 2) and can form larger aggregates. The inclusions are not uniformly distributed and can be found in epidermal (Fig. 2), mesophyll, and stomatal cells. These inclusions are made up of virus particles.			 African daisy Cucumber mosaic virus

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 African daisy Fusarium solani

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 African daisy Haematonectria haematococca

INSV has a wide host range and can be found in over 300 plant species including weeds, fruits, vegetables and ornamental crops. Of these, the most severely affected include tomatoes, lettuce, pepper and peppermint as well as most all ornamentals. Symptoms of infection include a downward curling of the leaves, leaf tip dieback, stunting, necrosis of growing leaf tips, sunken ‘chicken pox-like’ spots on leaves (often with a surrounding halo), stem death and yellowing.  Since these symptoms are so generic, extreme caution must be taken when introducing new plants to your greenhouse. Infected plants can not be cured and not all hosts display visible symptoms Western Flower Thrips are extremely hard to remove from their host plants, as they often dig themselves deep into blossoms, buds and other areas hard to reach with insecticides. So, even if plants are sprayed regularly with insecticide, INSV and other insect vectored viruses can not always be ruled out when forming diagnosis.Temperature and host both play an important factor when discussing the symptoms which an INSV infected plant will display. When New Guinea Impatiens are cultivated in an environment varying between 75 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit the host plant will be highly symptomatic. However, when New Guinea Impatiens are grown in an environment just 10 degrees cooler it is unlikely for there to be any observable symptoms of disease.	 African daisy Impatiens necrotic spot virus

These nematodes cause symptoms both on leaves and roots. Foliar symptoms of root-knot disease may be expressed at any time during the growing season. These symptoms of nematode damage on peanut plants range from stunting, yellowing, wilting and even plant death.  Ferris (1999–2012), also reported that nematodes cause yellowing; mid-day wilting; symptoms of water and nutrient stress; and sometimes death, especially if the nematode is interacting with other organisms.  They can appear in a peanut crop beginning about 100 days after planting or after periods of dry hot weather.  Areas of root-knot nematode damaged peanut are usually round to oblong in shape, and rows of infected plants may never overlap as those of healthy plants. It is common for plants to wilt and eventually die in areas where nematode populations are high.Root symptoms are similar to those caused by all nematodes including a reduction in number of feeder roots and root stunting, but root knot nematodes cause unique symptoms on roots and pods. Nematodes cause galls (knots) to form on both roots and pods of the peanut, and these galls are highly diagnostic for root-knot nematode presence compared to other nematodes affecting peanut. The presence of galls on roots, pegs and pods appears as single or multiple wart-like growths that may or may not be discolored. As root knot nematode infection progresses, and generally later in the season, secondary root and pod rots cause further damage and eventual death of the plants.Many soil-borne fungi, especially Sclerotium rolfsii (which causes southern stem rot) and Sclerotinia minor (which causes Sclerotinia blight), will infect the weakened peanut plants and cause more plant death. Root knot nematode infection of the peg weakens the peg so that it breaks during harvest, contributing to additional yield losses because the detached pods are then left in the soil. Infection of the pods leads to a decline in yield quality.The damage threshold, or the initial nematode population density at which peanut yields begin to decline, has been reported to be in the range of 1 to 10 eggs and second stage juveniles per 500 cm3 soil for M. arenaria on susceptible peanut cultivars.	 African daisy Meloidogyne arenaria

Meloidogyne hapla (Northern root-knot nematode) has a wide host range. It is polyphagous and affects over 550 crops and weeds. It feeds on many agricultural and horticultural plants (vegetables, fruits, ornamentals), but few grasses or cereals. A list of known hosts can be found at the bottom of this page.Symptoms can be seen in the roots, leaves, and the overall growth of the infected plant. In roots, there may be stunting, wilting, and the formation of abnormal growths called galls. Galls are usually small and spherical and are situated near many small roots. They are formed when the nematode enters the root and releases chemicals to enlarge root cells, on which they feed. The roots become defective and therefore cannot transport water and nutrients properly. The end result is stunted, wilted, and yellowing plants (characteristic of nutrient deficiency) and a decreased yield. Severity of the symptoms depends on nematode population density and host plant species and cultivar. As the number of nematodes increase in the area, the number and size of root galls increase as well. Each crop responds to Meloidogyne hapla differently. Carrots typically undergo severe forking with galling of the roots, lettuce have beadlike galls, and grasses and onions have small and barely noticeable galls and symptoms. In potato tubers (special stems), brown spots will appear on areas of the tubers where the females have laid their eggs.If a field has a patchy distribution of symptoms, it usually indicates the presence of nematodes. Most nematodes are not usually distributed uniformly in the soil. To correctly identify Meloidogyne hapla, the infected plant should be sent to a lab for a proper diagnosis. One common method is perineal pattern analysis where the perineum of the female nematode (area between the anus and the vulva) is examined for a specific pattern in ridges and annulations. Another common method is analyzing isozyme (different variations of the same enzyme produced by different genes) electrophoretic profiles using esterase and malate dehydrogenase.	 African daisy Meloidogyne hapla

This species is reported to be pathogenic on grandiflora petunia (Petunia × atkinsiana). It causes root rot, shoot rot and shanking in tulips. It also infects blue daze (Evolvulus glomeratus), dusty miller (Jacobaea maritima), Barberton daisy (Gerbera jamesonii), and garden verbena (Verbena × hybrida). Like its relative Phytophtora cambivora, it can cause ink disease of chestnuts (Castanea sativa).The species is a cause of foot rot in tomatoes, causing discoloration and lesion in the stem. Progression of lesions leads to girdling, root system rot and plant collapse. Foliage will not be affected until plant stem has become girdled.	 African daisy Phytophthora cryptogea

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 African daisy Phytophthora nicotianae

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 African daisy Phytophthora parasitica

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 African daisy Rhizoctonia solani

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 African daisy Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

Like other plant pathogenic viruses, TMV has a very wide host range and has different effects depending on the host being infected. Tobacco mosaic virus has been known to cause a production loss for flue cured tobacco of up to two percent in North Carolina. It is known to infect members of nine plant families, and at least 125 individual species, including tobacco, tomato, pepper (all members of the useful Solanaceae), cucumbers, a number of ornamental flowers, and beans including Phaseolus vulgaris and Vigna unguiculata. There are many different strains. The first symptom of this virus disease is a light green coloration between the veins of young leaves. This is followed quickly by the development of a "mosaic" or mottled pattern of light and dark green areas in the leaves. Rugosity may also be seen where the infected plant leaves display small localized random wrinkles. These symptoms develop quickly and are more pronounced on younger leaves. Its infection does not result in plant death, but if infection occurs early in the season, plants are stunted. Lower leaves are subjected to "mosaic burn"  especially during periods of hot and dry weather. In these cases, large dead areas develop in the leaves. This constitutes one of the most destructive phases of Tobacco mosaic virus infection. Infected leaves may be crinkled, puckered, or elongated. However, if TMV infects crops like grape and apple, it is almost symptomless. TMV is able  to infect and complete its replication cycle in a plant pathogenic fungus,TMV is able to enter and replicate in cells of C. acutatum, C. clavatum, and C. theobromicola, which may not be an exception, although it has neither been found nor probably searched for in nature.	 African daisy Tobacco mosaic virus

Boning  first discovered Tobacco Rattle Virus in 1931 in Germany.  It was discovered in Nicotiana tabacum, which is a species of cultivated tobacco.   Tobacco Rattle Virus is common and potentially serious in a variety of herbaceous ornamentals including, but not limited to, astilbe, bleeding heart, coral bells, daffodil, epimedium, gladiolus, hyacinth, marigold, tulip and vinca.  Tobacco rattle can also affect vegetable crops such as beans, beets, peppers, potatoes, and spinach.  On potatoes, the disease is referred to as corky ring spot. The disease corky ringspot of potatoes was first reported in the United States in 1946, and was identified incorrectly as a novel virus until advances in genetics demonstrated it to be the result of TRV.Symptoms of Tobacco Rattle Virus vary based on the plant host, which differs widely in this disease.  Common symptoms include mottling, chlorotic or necrotic local lesion, ringspots or line patterns, and systemic necrosis.	 African daisy Tobacco rattle virus

TSWV infects a variety of hosts, contributing to its global economic impact on crops. There are over a thousand different hosts for TSWV. The host range of TSWV includes agronomically important crops like tomatoes and tobacco. The symptoms of TSWV vary from host to host. There is also variability of symptoms within a single type of host due to the age of the plant, nutrition and the environment (especially temperature). Common symptoms include stunting, ringspots on fruit and necrosis of leaves. There are many different strains of TSWV, and differences in symptoms may also be attributed to the differences in the number of strains present.	 African daisy Tomato spotted wilt virus

In fields, symptomatic plants are recognized in patches or rows.  They appear dwarfed, stunted, and brown in comparison to healthy plants. Local symptoms appear above ground, and plant leaves are typically distorted in shape, crinkled, and discolored with hard surfaces. They often have reduced flower size. Diseased plants typically have dead crowns and a shortened internode of the runners.A classic leaf symptom is the appearance of angular, water-soaked lesions between the veins.  The angular appearance results where the lesion edge and vein meet. In leaves with parallel venation, the length of the lesion progresses parallel to the direction of the vein.  As lesions enlarge and leaf damage progresses, symptomatic leaf edges become dry, dead, and crinkled. Because infected strawberry plants are less vigorous in growth, the stolon does not grow well, which results in reduced fruit size and number.  If the nematodes infect early in plant development, specifically when the buds are forming, the plant morphology will be dwarfed and distorted.Once the nematodes destroy most of the leaf tissue, they leave the plant through wounds and natural openings in the leaf to find a new host to infect. The pathogen is easily transmitted through direct contact between the foliage of infected and non-infected plants.  Nematodes can also move over large distances through soil transportation, as a result of human and animal movement, or through insect and bird travel.	 African violet Aphelenchoides fragariae

A. ritezmabosi has a wide host range of almost 200 plant species, and is an important disease in chrysanthemum and other ornamentals.  Other ornamental hosts of A. ritzemabosi are anemones, asters, carnations, Chinaster, cinerarias, coneflowers,crassulas, creeping bellflower, dahlias, delphiniums, elders, lupines, monkeyflower, phlox,pouchflower, rhododendrons, sages, Siberian wallflower, water peperomia, and zinnias.A common symptom of A. ritezmabosi is seen when the nematode is feeding in the foliar tissue.  Angular lesions are formed, which are chlorotic at first then turn necrotic as the feeding persists.  A sign that an A. ritzeambosi nematode is feeding in the bud of a plant is brown scars on the bud and surrounding tissue.  The nematode also produces secretions that have the ability to cause several other symptoms in infested plants including shortening of inter-nodes, creating a bushy appearance, browning and failure of the shoot to grow, as well as distorted leaf formation.	 African violet Aphelenchoides ritzemabosi

D. dadantii is phytopathogenic bacterium causing soft rot diseases on many host plants including some which are economically important. D. dadantii, more commonly known as: soft rot, brown rot or blackleg, causes characteristic symptoms associated with other bacterial wilts, causing final diagnosis to be difficult. The pathogen primarily seeks to attack the plant's xylem vessels located in leaves, stems, blossoms and storage organs of herbaceous plants. D. dadantii is able to infect hosts at any point in its life cycle. In addition to symptoms of wilt, the disease appears as sunken and cracked external lesions also having a brown interior in cross section in subterranean bulbs and tubers Diseased plants will display a variety of symptoms including: wilting, stunting and vascular discoloration of the stems. Early symptoms include water soaked lesions at the site of infection, gradually expanding chlorotic leaves and loss of turgor in tissues. The intensity of D. dadantii colonization relates to the amount of disease and degree of damage. The pathogen is very successful at infiltrating host tissues due to the many pectinases responsible for disassembly of plant cell wall polysaccharides. Once the cell wall is degraded cellular structure collapses and this cell maceration gives a characteristic "water-soaked" or rotted appearance. D. dadantii grow intercellularly, continuing to degrade cells and colonize, until it eventually reaches xylem tissues. Upon reaching the xylem vessels D. dadantii possesses the ability to spread to new regions of the host and other areas may begin to display symptoms. Colonization within the xylem restricts flow of water causing loss of turgor pressure and wilting of foliage and stems. Restricted movement of important plant compounds eventually lead to death of the host.	 African violet Dickeya dadantii

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 African violet Fusarium solani

INSV has a wide host range and can be found in over 300 plant species including weeds, fruits, vegetables and ornamental crops. Of these, the most severely affected include tomatoes, lettuce, pepper and peppermint as well as most all ornamentals. Symptoms of infection include a downward curling of the leaves, leaf tip dieback, stunting, necrosis of growing leaf tips, sunken ‘chicken pox-like’ spots on leaves (often with a surrounding halo), stem death and yellowing.  Since these symptoms are so generic, extreme caution must be taken when introducing new plants to your greenhouse. Infected plants can not be cured and not all hosts display visible symptoms Western Flower Thrips are extremely hard to remove from their host plants, as they often dig themselves deep into blossoms, buds and other areas hard to reach with insecticides. So, even if plants are sprayed regularly with insecticide, INSV and other insect vectored viruses can not always be ruled out when forming diagnosis.Temperature and host both play an important factor when discussing the symptoms which an INSV infected plant will display. When New Guinea Impatiens are cultivated in an environment varying between 75 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit the host plant will be highly symptomatic. However, when New Guinea Impatiens are grown in an environment just 10 degrees cooler it is unlikely for there to be any observable symptoms of disease.	 African violet Impatiens necrotic spot virus

These nematodes cause symptoms both on leaves and roots. Foliar symptoms of root-knot disease may be expressed at any time during the growing season. These symptoms of nematode damage on peanut plants range from stunting, yellowing, wilting and even plant death.  Ferris (1999–2012), also reported that nematodes cause yellowing; mid-day wilting; symptoms of water and nutrient stress; and sometimes death, especially if the nematode is interacting with other organisms.  They can appear in a peanut crop beginning about 100 days after planting or after periods of dry hot weather.  Areas of root-knot nematode damaged peanut are usually round to oblong in shape, and rows of infected plants may never overlap as those of healthy plants. It is common for plants to wilt and eventually die in areas where nematode populations are high.Root symptoms are similar to those caused by all nematodes including a reduction in number of feeder roots and root stunting, but root knot nematodes cause unique symptoms on roots and pods. Nematodes cause galls (knots) to form on both roots and pods of the peanut, and these galls are highly diagnostic for root-knot nematode presence compared to other nematodes affecting peanut. The presence of galls on roots, pegs and pods appears as single or multiple wart-like growths that may or may not be discolored. As root knot nematode infection progresses, and generally later in the season, secondary root and pod rots cause further damage and eventual death of the plants.Many soil-borne fungi, especially Sclerotium rolfsii (which causes southern stem rot) and Sclerotinia minor (which causes Sclerotinia blight), will infect the weakened peanut plants and cause more plant death. Root knot nematode infection of the peg weakens the peg so that it breaks during harvest, contributing to additional yield losses because the detached pods are then left in the soil. Infection of the pods leads to a decline in yield quality.The damage threshold, or the initial nematode population density at which peanut yields begin to decline, has been reported to be in the range of 1 to 10 eggs and second stage juveniles per 500 cm3 soil for M. arenaria on susceptible peanut cultivars.	 African violet Meloidogyne arenaria

Meloidogyne hapla (Northern root-knot nematode) has a wide host range. It is polyphagous and affects over 550 crops and weeds. It feeds on many agricultural and horticultural plants (vegetables, fruits, ornamentals), but few grasses or cereals. A list of known hosts can be found at the bottom of this page.Symptoms can be seen in the roots, leaves, and the overall growth of the infected plant. In roots, there may be stunting, wilting, and the formation of abnormal growths called galls. Galls are usually small and spherical and are situated near many small roots. They are formed when the nematode enters the root and releases chemicals to enlarge root cells, on which they feed. The roots become defective and therefore cannot transport water and nutrients properly. The end result is stunted, wilted, and yellowing plants (characteristic of nutrient deficiency) and a decreased yield. Severity of the symptoms depends on nematode population density and host plant species and cultivar. As the number of nematodes increase in the area, the number and size of root galls increase as well. Each crop responds to Meloidogyne hapla differently. Carrots typically undergo severe forking with galling of the roots, lettuce have beadlike galls, and grasses and onions have small and barely noticeable galls and symptoms. In potato tubers (special stems), brown spots will appear on areas of the tubers where the females have laid their eggs.If a field has a patchy distribution of symptoms, it usually indicates the presence of nematodes. Most nematodes are not usually distributed uniformly in the soil. To correctly identify Meloidogyne hapla, the infected plant should be sent to a lab for a proper diagnosis. One common method is perineal pattern analysis where the perineum of the female nematode (area between the anus and the vulva) is examined for a specific pattern in ridges and annulations. Another common method is analyzing isozyme (different variations of the same enzyme produced by different genes) electrophoretic profiles using esterase and malate dehydrogenase.	 African violet Meloidogyne hapla

Plants affected by M. incognita present above ground symptoms of water- and nutrient-stress, yellowing, wilting, and stunting. Below ground galling on roots, bulbs, tubers is the typical symptom. Plant death may occur in high infestation level.	 African violet Meloidogyne incognita

Because there are so many different hosts for this pathogen, the symptoms are very variable. Common symptoms include abnormal leaf color, abnormal leaf form, wilting leaves, galls, swollen roots, reduced root system, dwarfing and senescence (Cabi 2018). This pathogen does the most damage when present in light soils with hot weather conditions (Alford 2012).	 African violet Meloidogyne javanica

This species is reported to be pathogenic on grandiflora petunia (Petunia × atkinsiana). It causes root rot, shoot rot and shanking in tulips. It also infects blue daze (Evolvulus glomeratus), dusty miller (Jacobaea maritima), Barberton daisy (Gerbera jamesonii), and garden verbena (Verbena × hybrida). Like its relative Phytophtora cambivora, it can cause ink disease of chestnuts (Castanea sativa).The species is a cause of foot rot in tomatoes, causing discoloration and lesion in the stem. Progression of lesions leads to girdling, root system rot and plant collapse. Foliage will not be affected until plant stem has become girdled.	 African violet Phytophthora cryptogea

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 African violet Phytophthora nicotianae

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 Dahlia Alternaria alternata

This virus was first characterized in cucumbers (Cucumis sativus) showing mosaic symptoms in 1934, hence the name Cucumber mosaic. Since then, it has been found to infect a great variety of other plants. These include other vegetables such as squash, melons, peppers, eggplants, tomatoes, beans, carrots, celery, lettuce, spinach, beets, many ornamentals and bedding plants, such as Narcissus, and various weeds. Its presence has been confirmed on every continent of the world, including Antarctica.Symptoms seen with this virus include leaf mosaic or mottling (Fig. 1), yellowing, ringspots, stunting, and leaf, flower and fruit distortion. CMV also induces a type of symptom on leaves known as the "shoestring" effect on many host species. This effect causes young leaves to appear narrow and the entire plant to be stunted.Specifically, CMV can cause cucumbers to turn pale and bumpy. The leaves of these plants turn mosaic and their rugosity is often changed, making leaves wrinkled and misshapen. Growth of these plants is usually also stunted and produces few flowers. Often, cucumber fruits are oddly shaped, appear gray, and tested bitter. These appearances lead to them being referred to as "white pickles".Tomato plants are usually stunted and have poorly shaped leaves, or "fernleaf", when infected by CMV. Also certain strains of CMV can cause partial or total crop loss. CMV in peppers causes slightly different symptoms than the previously mentioned. Pepper plants often have severe foliar damage, shown as mosaic and necrotic rings. Often the peppers themselves are misshapen and contain chlorotic rings and spots. In celery, CMV causes streaking and spotting and can be often confused with symptoms of the celery mosaic virus. Symptoms of CMV in lettuce, such as chlorosis, plant stunting and often do not properly head, can be very similar to those of lettuce mosaic virus.CMV has also been identified in a lesser extent to a number of plant species. It is found to be a minor virus infecting Allium crops. The virus infection causes extensive malformation on garlic plants, and mild malformation to severe necrotic streaks on onion leaves. The severe damages on garlic plants and difficulty of aphids transmission of garlic isolate, were possible causal for the rare CMV on garlic. Genetically, the two onion isolates from Turkey (CMV-14.3Po and CMV-15.5Po) are highly similar to others isolated from various plant species in Mediterranean, European, and East Asian countries. CMV was also detected on American beautyberry, an important wildlife and pollinator food source plant native to North America.In plant tissue this virus makes characteristic viral inclusion bodies which can be diagnostic. They are hexagonal in shape (Fig. 2) and stain both in a protein stain and a nucleic acid stain. The inclusions can also be rhomboidal, may appear hollow (Fig. 2) and can form larger aggregates. The inclusions are not uniformly distributed and can be found in epidermal (Fig. 2), mesophyll, and stomatal cells. These inclusions are made up of virus particles.			 Dahlia Cucumber mosaic virus

Erysiphe cruciferarum exhibits typical powdery mildew characteristics, appearing as small radiating, diffuse colonies of superficial white mycelium on the surface of the leaf; usually both sides of the leaf show white, powdery fungal growth. Additional signs of the pathogen would be that its conidia are singly produced (not in chains) and are ovoid to cylindrical in shape, ranging from 42.5–57 µm × 14.5–20.5 µm in size. Also, E. cruciferarum has rather variable appressoria, differing from lobed to simple, and haustoria that are multilobed. Severe, advanced infections produce a dense white powdery covering of leaves, stems, and seed crop pods. On cauliflower and cabbage, heavily diseased plants show chlorosis, early defoliation, and necrosis of the tips of young leaves. Colonies may be gray and restricted in size on resistant cultivars as the host reaction produces black speckling beneath the colony. On Brussels sprout, gray or purple symptoms occur on the stems, while on the sprouts there may be white colonies or fine black speckling in radiating lines.Disease diagnosis is determined on the basis of anamorph morphology and host.	 Dahlia Erysiphe communis

Symptoms appear as dirty white, circular, floury patches on either sides of the leaves.Under favourable environmental conditions, entire leaves, stems, floral parts and pods are affected.The whole leaf may be covered with powdery mass.If persistent, mild chlorosis or necrosis can also occur.	 Dahlia Erysiphe polygoni

INSV has a wide host range and can be found in over 300 plant species including weeds, fruits, vegetables and ornamental crops. Of these, the most severely affected include tomatoes, lettuce, pepper and peppermint as well as most all ornamentals. Symptoms of infection include a downward curling of the leaves, leaf tip dieback, stunting, necrosis of growing leaf tips, sunken ‘chicken pox-like’ spots on leaves (often with a surrounding halo), stem death and yellowing.  Since these symptoms are so generic, extreme caution must be taken when introducing new plants to your greenhouse. Infected plants can not be cured and not all hosts display visible symptoms Western Flower Thrips are extremely hard to remove from their host plants, as they often dig themselves deep into blossoms, buds and other areas hard to reach with insecticides. So, even if plants are sprayed regularly with insecticide, INSV and other insect vectored viruses can not always be ruled out when forming diagnosis.Temperature and host both play an important factor when discussing the symptoms which an INSV infected plant will display. When New Guinea Impatiens are cultivated in an environment varying between 75 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit the host plant will be highly symptomatic. However, when New Guinea Impatiens are grown in an environment just 10 degrees cooler it is unlikely for there to be any observable symptoms of disease.	 Dahlia Impatiens necrotic spot virus

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 Dahlia Rhizoctonia solani

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 Dahlia Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 Dahlia Thanatephorus cucumeris

TSWV infects a variety of hosts, contributing to its global economic impact on crops. There are over a thousand different hosts for TSWV. The host range of TSWV includes agronomically important crops like tomatoes and tobacco. The symptoms of TSWV vary from host to host. There is also variability of symptoms within a single type of host due to the age of the plant, nutrition and the environment (especially temperature). Common symptoms include stunting, ringspots on fruit and necrosis of leaves. There are many different strains of TSWV, and differences in symptoms may also be attributed to the differences in the number of strains present.	 Dahlia Tomato spotted wilt virus

Symptoms and signs of fungus disease are often found underground. The H. annosum infections cause an abnormal change in structure in the roots that climbs up to the butt of the tree. More than half the tree may be killed before any symptoms appear to the human eye. Basidiocarps can take up to one and a half or even three years to be visible. This infections causes the trees to have abnormal needle growth, pale yellow barks, and the trees to wither and die. This root disease typically causes the tree to have a thin crown from bottom up and inside out. Trees will eventually die. A landscape scale symptom is the rings of dead trees in various stages of decay and death, with the oldest at the center and progressively younger moving outward. The white rot fungus found in the roots is the sign of telling whether the tree has been affected by H. annosum. The bark changes colors as the stages progress, they go from pale yellow, to a crusty light brown, and finally in its advanced stage it turns white with the signature of Fomes annosus―a sprinkled streak of black spots. Another sign is the leaking part of the root that causes a compact mass to form between it and the sand.	 Douglas-fir Heterobasidion annosum

Symptoms of this disease in spruce hosts include dead and dying branches and perennial lesions on the branches and trunk, which exude resins. Older branches (lower on the trees) sustain more damage than younger ones. In spring and early summer the foliage of an infected branches on host trees fade and turns brown, which is an indication of girdling occurring within a branch or along the mainstem caused by this pathogen. These brown needles will remain attached during the growing season and then fall off during the winter, leaving behind bare twigs and branches. This entire process can occur annually, moving from low branches to higher branches, thus destroying the symmetry of the host tree. Twigs and branches killed by this disease may remain on the diseased host tree for several years. All of this damage caused by this fungal pathogen does not typically begin until the host trees are at least 10–15 years old. However, in landscape nurseries small branches of young blue spruce or occasionally white spruce may be killed.Lesions typically begin at the bases of small twigs and develop into elliptic or occasionally diamond-shaped cankers. Lesions that originate on branches close to the main stem may actually spread into the main stem. Cambium that has been killed by this disease has a brown to reddish brown internal coloration and is saturated with resins. The underlying sapwood, which has been killed and colonized by the pathogen, is rarely discolored. Amber colored resin profusely exudes from the edges of cankers, runs down the bark, or drips onto lower branches or the ground, and then hardens into a white crust. The lesions associated with this pathogen typically go visibly unnoticed on infected host trees for several years, due to the diseased tissue being held in place by resin. The formation of callus at canker margins is subtle or nearly absent, usually resin is the only indication of an underlying bark lesion. Cankers formed on the trunk will eventually appear as sunken due to living tissues (callus) expanding and growing around the wounded tissues. Complete girdling of the host trunk or large limbs may occur; however, this event may take several years to even decades to accomplish. In other susceptible conifers, symptoms are similar to those of spruce except resin exudation is usually less prominent. Regarding pines the key symptom to note is the inconspicuous branch cankers caused by this pathogen.	 Douglas-fir Leucostoma kunzei

One of the most harmful seed and soil borne pathogens, Macrophomina phaseolina is a fungus that infects nearly 500 plant species in more than 100 families. The hosts include: peanut, cabbage, pepper, chickpea, soybean, sunflower, sweet potato, alfalfa, sesame, potato, sorghum, wheat, and corn, among others. The identification of isolates of M. phaseolina is usually based on morphology and efforts to divide the pathogen into subspecies, but because there are wide intraspecific variations in the phenotype of the isolates, these criteria are often not reliable. The failure to correctly detect and identify M. phaseolina using conventional culture-based morphological techniques has led scientists to develop nucleic acid-based molecular approaches, such as highly sensitive and specific polymerase chain reaction-based methods. Researchers have also recently created species-specific oligonucleotide primers and digoxigenin-labeled probes in hopes of better identifying and detecting M. phaseolina.The pathogen M. phaseolina affects the fibrovascular system of the roots and basal internodes of its host, impeding the transport of water and nutrients to the upper parts of the plant. As a result, progressive wilting, premature dying, loss of vigor, and reduced yield are characteristic symptoms of M. phaseolina infection. The fungus also causes many diseases like damping off, seedling blight, collar rot, stem rot, charcoal rot, basal stem rot, and root rot. Although brown lesions may form on the hypocotyls or emerging seedlings, many symptoms occur during or after flowering, including grey discoloration of the stem and taproots, shredding of plant tissue in the stem and top of the taproot, and hollowing of the stem. Small black dots may form beneath the epidermis of the lower stem and in the taproot, giving the stems and roots a charcoal-sprinkled appearance. When the epidermis is removed, small and black microsclerotia (a sign of the disease) may be so numerous that they give a greyish-black tint to the plant tissue. In addition, reddish-brown discoloration and black streaks can form in the pith and vascular tissues of the root and stem.	 Douglas-fir Macrophomina phaseolina

Red ring rot is common in North America.  The pathogen Phellinus pini is widely spread in the temperate zone in the Northern Hemisphere.  It infects a wide range of coniferous trees, including jack pine, lodgepole pine, Sitka and white spruce, Douglas-fir, balsam and true fir, western hemlock, and tamarack. It attacks both heartwood and sapwood and causes white pocket trunk rot.The basidiocarps (fruiting body), conks, are the most apparent signs on infected trees.  The conks are perennial, usually gregarious, imbricate, and shelve-shaped, about 3 inches wide. The tops of conks are reddish brown to blackish with concentric furrows; the underside is yellow-brown, while for growing conks, the undersurface and margin of growing conks is a bright yellowish-brown with large irregular pores.  White pockets usually develop where the conks develop, but the decay may extend 4 ft above and 5 ft below a conk. Decay tends to occur at the base of stem, but may also develop into large roots. In the early stage of decay, the affected wood becomes reddish to purplish in color. A cross section of the affected wood shows a well-defined ring. In advanced stages of decay, small, spindle-shaped white pockets are formed due to the degradation of lignin by P. pini. The white pockets are mostly hollow and delignified and contain white residual cellulose.	 Douglas-fir Phellinus pini

Rhabdocline pseudotsugae, known as needle cast, is a fungal pathogen that affects Douglas Fir specifically in the Pacific Northwest and Intermountain provinces. Douglas Fir are used as Christmas trees and the aesthetic value can be decreased from R. pseudotsugae. The symptoms first appear as small yellow spots on current season needles in the fall/winter. In the spring the discolored areas on the needle expand and can spread to the whole needle, however bands of discoloration are often formed. The bands start yellow but turn brown/red and can become purple with spots on the upper or lower surface of the needle. Signs of Rhabdocline pseudotsugae include apothecia that mature below epidermis where swelling is visible. These fruiting bodies are present on the underside of needles. In spring a split develops and exposes the orange brown surface of fungal body.	 Douglas-fir Rhabdocline pseudotsugae

One of the main symptoms of the seedlings are that they appear stressed. The needles will be necrotic, and they can appear girdled at or below the soil line. Leader growth will also be stunted. The roots will be covered in lesions and white to yellow mycelium. Symptoms can also appear on mature trees, and may include extensive cone production, reduced shoot growth, a significant amount of resin production from the lower part of the stem, and chlorotic and necrotic needles. Fruiting structures will be very distinct, as they can be up to 6 cm in diameter and are chestnut brown with brain-like lobes and fissures. The presence of these fruiting structures, as well as their proximity to the trees, can be critical signs in diagnosis of Rhizina root disease. Other contributing factors are the proximity of the fire sites as well as the mycelium and the lesions present on the roots. The signs and symptoms are most commonly seen in the late summer and fall in wet years.	 Douglas-fir Rhizina undulata

Stereum sanguinolentum is a basidiomycete that causes both brown rot and white rot on conifers. The primary symptom is the red streaking discoloration. It is a white rot basidiomycete that causes an extensive decay resulting from wounds, logging extractions, bark peeking, or branch pruning. Stereum sanguinolentum forms territorial clones while spreading by vegetative growths between spatially separated resource units; Armillaria spp, Heterobasidion annosum, Phellinus weirii, Inonotus tomentosus, and Phellinus noxius all work with Stereum sanguinolentum to attack the host. The combinations of these pathogens work together to form territorial clones that can cover up to several hectares and survive for hundreds of years while infecting trees.White rot causes a gradual decrease in cellulose as the decay continues to affect the tree. The white rot fungi consume the segments of cellulose that are released during the decay as quickly as they are produced. White rot is also known as “wound rot of spruce” and is when the spores create open wounds on the host.In Brown Rot, the cellulose is degraded. The rapid decrease in cellulose chain length implies that the catalyst that facilitates the depolymerization readily gains access to cellulose chains.	 Douglas-fir Stereum sanguinolentum

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 English walnut Alternaria alternata

Armillaria mellea typically infects hardwood trees and conifers but sometimes will infect non-woody monocots and a few herbaceous plants. There are few signs, and the ones that do exist are often hard to find. The most prominent sign is honey-colored mushrooms at the base of the infected plant. Additional signs include white, fan-shaped mycelia and black rhizomorphs with diameters between 1/32nd of an inch and 1/8th of an inch. These usually are not as noticeable because they occur beneath the bark and in the soil, respectively. The symptoms are much more numerous, including slower growth, dieback of branches, yellowing foliage, rotted wood at base and/or roots, external cankers, cracking bark, bleeding stem, leaf wilting, defoliation, and rapid death. Leaf wilting, defoliation, and dieback occur after the destruction of the cambium.	 English walnut Armillaria mellea

Symptoms include leaf roll, leaf yellowing, early dropping of leaves, stunted growth, and plant dieback. Plants can also be infected without exhibiting symptoms.	 English walnut Cherry leaf roll virus

It has a wide host range, infecting many woody plants, and it is known to infect all species of the genus Prunus, which includes peach, almond, apricot, cherry, and plum. It also infects various other fruit trees, and grapes, in particular. There have been studies that have shown large concentrations of ring nematodes in peppermint, as well.Symptoms can include, but are not limited to: root-pruning, decreased nutrient uptake, vascular damage, possible death of shoots and limbs, and stunted plant growth. With the reduced nutrient uptake, some cases have shown that the change in ratio if carbon:nitrogen can make plants infected by ring nematodes more susceptible to bacterial canker cause by Pseudomonas syringae, (Lownsberry, et al. 1977).	 English walnut Mesocriconema xenoplax

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 English walnut Phymatotrichopsis omnivora

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 English walnut Phymatotrichum omnivorum

Phytophthora cactorum has an extremely wide host range, and can infect over 200 species or 160 genera of trees, ornamentals, and fruit crops. In general, P. cactorum is capable of infecting both young and old plants, and causes root rots and crown rots of the many genera it infects. Although the symptoms this pathogen produces varies between the types of organisms it infects, in general disease occurs during periods that are both wet and warm. Furthermore, most infections are caused by zoospores entering the plant through wounds.: 34 On older trees, P. cactorum causes the formation of sap exuding dark colored cankers on the trunks of trees, as well as leaf size and number reduction, chlorosis, and dieback of branches. The diagnosis of a P. cactorum infection of trees, is based on the identification of symptoms, in particular the oozing cankers, and confirmation of symptoms in a diagnosis lab or utilization of a field ELISA detection kit. P. cactorum can be a major problem in apple orchards, as it can cause crown, collar, and root rots in apple trees. When infecting apple trees, the organism can attack through wounds either above or below the soil line, impairing phloem and root function, and causing stunting, foliar disorders, and death after several years. Furthermore, because the pathogen causes damage to the phloem of the tree, one diagnostic method is to check for necrotic phloem tissue at the base of the tree which will be orange to red-brown in the early stages and dark brown in the later stages of infection.A good example of P. cactorum causing foliar disease is on ginseng. Foliar disease of ginseng usually occurs during May and early June, causing the leaves to become transparent and papery. Ginseng foliar infection occurs through the rain splash dispersal of spores from the soil onto above ground wounds. Once infected, P. cactorum works its way down to the roots, rotting them and killing the plant.P. cactorum is also one of the causal agents of black rot on orchids. When infecting orchids, this organism first produces small black lesions on the pseudobulbs of the orchid, which then enlarge and may engulf the entire pseudobulb, leaf, or move through the rhizomes to other portions of the plant prior to killing it. Diagnosis of orchid black rot by P. cactorum is through the identification of lemon-shaped zoosporangia with either a papilla or a short pedicel, the presence of oospores, or molecular identification. Since there are multiple species of Phytophthora that are capable of causing disease on orchids, classification only to the genus level is required for proper prescription of disease management techniques.Crown rot or root rot of strawberries is a common example of diseases of fruit crops caused by P. cactorum. On strawberries, P. cactorum infects the roots and the base of the plant causing stunting and reduced leaf size, with possible complete plant collapse later in the season. Similarly to apple trees, crown rots of strawberries caused by P. cactorum can be partially diagnosed by cutting the crown of the plant and observing brown vascular tissues, and root rots by brown or black stunted roots.Leather rot of strawberry is an additional disease affecting strawberry plants, with P. cactorum being the causal agent. Symptoms of this disease include brown patches or green patches with a brown border in immature fruit, with infected mature fruit displaying a purple to brown color, and becoming hard, leathery, or even mummified. Signs include visible mycelium inside of hollow infected berries, as well as mycelium on the surface of berries.  Infected fruit often has an unpleasant taste and odor, which is diagnostic. 	 English walnut Phytophthora cactorum

The host range for Phytophythora cinnamomi is very broad. It is distributed worldwide and causes disease on hundreds of hosts. The disease affects a range of economic groups, including food crops such as avocado and pineapple as well as trees and woody ornamentals such as Fraser firs, shortleaf pines, loblolly pines, azaleas, camellia, boxwood, causing root rot and dieback. It is a root pathogen that causes root rot and death of host plants. Some symptoms include: wilting, decreased fruit size, decrease in yield, collar rot, gum exudation, necrosis, leaf chlorosis, leaf curl, and stem cankers. Another symptom is that it can cause dieback of young shoots and may interfere with transpiration of roots to shoots. Older plants may not exhibit symptoms or may display only mild dieback despite having severe root rot.	 English walnut Phytophthora cinnamomi

This species is reported to be pathogenic on grandiflora petunia (Petunia × atkinsiana). It causes root rot, shoot rot and shanking in tulips. It also infects blue daze (Evolvulus glomeratus), dusty miller (Jacobaea maritima), Barberton daisy (Gerbera jamesonii), and garden verbena (Verbena × hybrida). Like its relative Phytophtora cambivora, it can cause ink disease of chestnuts (Castanea sativa).The species is a cause of foot rot in tomatoes, causing discoloration and lesion in the stem. Progression of lesions leads to girdling, root system rot and plant collapse. Foliage will not be affected until plant stem has become girdled.	 English walnut Phytophthora cryptogea

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 English walnut Phytophthora nicotianae

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 English walnut Phytophthora parasitica

Xanthomonas campestris pv. juglandis overwinters in the walnut buds, catkins, leaves, and infected fruit still hanging on the tree, and twig lesions. During this time, these buds may remain asymptomatic even just a few days before budburst. In the spring, when the buds begin to open, the bacteria invade and begin infecting the internal bud and developing fruit. Wind and rain splash play a large role in spreading this disease, as rain splash makes it easier for bacteria to move from infected plant tissue to healthy buds. Aerial dissemination of pollen from infected catkins have been recorded to infect the receiving bud/tree in France, but conflicting data has been shown for trees in California where researchers did not find a link between peak disease development and peak pollen shedding. Once infected through the pistils, flowers, or fruit, symptoms of the disease may begin to take shape, such as dark green, circular water soaked areas on the leaves, developing lesions which grow in size, walnut shell and fruit stunting, and/or walnut shell staining.Lesions which appear on the leaves may grow larger and the center may turn black or translucent. This area may then ooze bacterial discharge and polysaccharides and further infect other tissue it may travel to by rain splash. The size of the lesions vary in young and more mature leaves.  Young leaves have lesions from one to a few millimeters while older leaf lesions can range from a few millimeters to half of the leaf.Premature nut fall occurs when infection takes place before the formation and hardening of the shell tissue and is able to rot and shrivel the kernel. The tree then sheds the diseased nut.	 English walnut Xanthomonas campestris pv. juglandis

Alternaria solani infects stems, leaves and fruits of tomato (Solanum lycopersicum L.), potato (S. tuberosum), eggplant (S. melongena L.), bell pepper and hot pepper (Capsicum spp.), and other members of the family Solanaceae. Distinguishing symptoms of A. solani include leaf spot and defoliation, which are most pronounced in the lower canopy. In some cases, A. solani may also cause damping off.	 Jerusalem cherry Alternaria solani

This virus was first characterized in cucumbers (Cucumis sativus) showing mosaic symptoms in 1934, hence the name Cucumber mosaic. Since then, it has been found to infect a great variety of other plants. These include other vegetables such as squash, melons, peppers, eggplants, tomatoes, beans, carrots, celery, lettuce, spinach, beets, many ornamentals and bedding plants, such as Narcissus, and various weeds. Its presence has been confirmed on every continent of the world, including Antarctica.Symptoms seen with this virus include leaf mosaic or mottling (Fig. 1), yellowing, ringspots, stunting, and leaf, flower and fruit distortion. CMV also induces a type of symptom on leaves known as the "shoestring" effect on many host species. This effect causes young leaves to appear narrow and the entire plant to be stunted.Specifically, CMV can cause cucumbers to turn pale and bumpy. The leaves of these plants turn mosaic and their rugosity is often changed, making leaves wrinkled and misshapen. Growth of these plants is usually also stunted and produces few flowers. Often, cucumber fruits are oddly shaped, appear gray, and tested bitter. These appearances lead to them being referred to as "white pickles".Tomato plants are usually stunted and have poorly shaped leaves, or "fernleaf", when infected by CMV. Also certain strains of CMV can cause partial or total crop loss. CMV in peppers causes slightly different symptoms than the previously mentioned. Pepper plants often have severe foliar damage, shown as mosaic and necrotic rings. Often the peppers themselves are misshapen and contain chlorotic rings and spots. In celery, CMV causes streaking and spotting and can be often confused with symptoms of the celery mosaic virus. Symptoms of CMV in lettuce, such as chlorosis, plant stunting and often do not properly head, can be very similar to those of lettuce mosaic virus.CMV has also been identified in a lesser extent to a number of plant species. It is found to be a minor virus infecting Allium crops. The virus infection causes extensive malformation on garlic plants, and mild malformation to severe necrotic streaks on onion leaves. The severe damages on garlic plants and difficulty of aphids transmission of garlic isolate, were possible causal for the rare CMV on garlic. Genetically, the two onion isolates from Turkey (CMV-14.3Po and CMV-15.5Po) are highly similar to others isolated from various plant species in Mediterranean, European, and East Asian countries. CMV was also detected on American beautyberry, an important wildlife and pollinator food source plant native to North America.In plant tissue this virus makes characteristic viral inclusion bodies which can be diagnostic. They are hexagonal in shape (Fig. 2) and stain both in a protein stain and a nucleic acid stain. The inclusions can also be rhomboidal, may appear hollow (Fig. 2) and can form larger aggregates. The inclusions are not uniformly distributed and can be found in epidermal (Fig. 2), mesophyll, and stomatal cells. These inclusions are made up of virus particles.			 Jerusalem cherry Cucumber mosaic virus

INSV has a wide host range and can be found in over 300 plant species including weeds, fruits, vegetables and ornamental crops. Of these, the most severely affected include tomatoes, lettuce, pepper and peppermint as well as most all ornamentals. Symptoms of infection include a downward curling of the leaves, leaf tip dieback, stunting, necrosis of growing leaf tips, sunken ‘chicken pox-like’ spots on leaves (often with a surrounding halo), stem death and yellowing.  Since these symptoms are so generic, extreme caution must be taken when introducing new plants to your greenhouse. Infected plants can not be cured and not all hosts display visible symptoms Western Flower Thrips are extremely hard to remove from their host plants, as they often dig themselves deep into blossoms, buds and other areas hard to reach with insecticides. So, even if plants are sprayed regularly with insecticide, INSV and other insect vectored viruses can not always be ruled out when forming diagnosis.Temperature and host both play an important factor when discussing the symptoms which an INSV infected plant will display. When New Guinea Impatiens are cultivated in an environment varying between 75 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit the host plant will be highly symptomatic. However, when New Guinea Impatiens are grown in an environment just 10 degrees cooler it is unlikely for there to be any observable symptoms of disease.	 Jerusalem cherry Impatiens necrotic spot virus

L. taurica is the pathogen responsible for powdery mildew on onions, but it can also infect peppers, tomatoes, eggplant, cotton, and garlic. While L. taurica can infect many different plants it is actually very host specific. Different races of L. taurica can only infect certain crops, and even specific cultivars within the same crop. An accurate way to describe its host specificity is that this disease is, “a composite species consisting of many host-specific races." Symptoms of Onion Powdery Mildew (OPM) are usually seen as circular or oblong lesions that are 5 to 20 mm and have a chlorotic or necrotic appearance. The lesions appear on older leaves before the bulb of the onion begins to form, but also can occur on the younger leaves towards the end of the season. As the disease progresses signs of OPM can also be seen. On the lesions white mycelium can be found with conidiophores bearing either lanceolate or rounded condia.	 Jerusalem cherry Leveillula taurica

These nematodes cause symptoms both on leaves and roots. Foliar symptoms of root-knot disease may be expressed at any time during the growing season. These symptoms of nematode damage on peanut plants range from stunting, yellowing, wilting and even plant death.  Ferris (1999–2012), also reported that nematodes cause yellowing; mid-day wilting; symptoms of water and nutrient stress; and sometimes death, especially if the nematode is interacting with other organisms.  They can appear in a peanut crop beginning about 100 days after planting or after periods of dry hot weather.  Areas of root-knot nematode damaged peanut are usually round to oblong in shape, and rows of infected plants may never overlap as those of healthy plants. It is common for plants to wilt and eventually die in areas where nematode populations are high.Root symptoms are similar to those caused by all nematodes including a reduction in number of feeder roots and root stunting, but root knot nematodes cause unique symptoms on roots and pods. Nematodes cause galls (knots) to form on both roots and pods of the peanut, and these galls are highly diagnostic for root-knot nematode presence compared to other nematodes affecting peanut. The presence of galls on roots, pegs and pods appears as single or multiple wart-like growths that may or may not be discolored. As root knot nematode infection progresses, and generally later in the season, secondary root and pod rots cause further damage and eventual death of the plants.Many soil-borne fungi, especially Sclerotium rolfsii (which causes southern stem rot) and Sclerotinia minor (which causes Sclerotinia blight), will infect the weakened peanut plants and cause more plant death. Root knot nematode infection of the peg weakens the peg so that it breaks during harvest, contributing to additional yield losses because the detached pods are then left in the soil. Infection of the pods leads to a decline in yield quality.The damage threshold, or the initial nematode population density at which peanut yields begin to decline, has been reported to be in the range of 1 to 10 eggs and second stage juveniles per 500 cm3 soil for M. arenaria on susceptible peanut cultivars.	 Jerusalem cherry Meloidogyne arenaria

Plants affected by M. incognita present above ground symptoms of water- and nutrient-stress, yellowing, wilting, and stunting. Below ground galling on roots, bulbs, tubers is the typical symptom. Plant death may occur in high infestation level.	 Jerusalem cherry Meloidogyne incognita

Because there are so many different hosts for this pathogen, the symptoms are very variable. Common symptoms include abnormal leaf color, abnormal leaf form, wilting leaves, galls, swollen roots, reduced root system, dwarfing and senescence (Cabi 2018). This pathogen does the most damage when present in light soils with hot weather conditions (Alford 2012).	 Jerusalem cherry Meloidogyne javanica

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 Jerusalem cherry Phytophthora parasitica

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 Jerusalem cherry Rhizoctonia solani

Like other plant pathogenic viruses, TMV has a very wide host range and has different effects depending on the host being infected. Tobacco mosaic virus has been known to cause a production loss for flue cured tobacco of up to two percent in North Carolina. It is known to infect members of nine plant families, and at least 125 individual species, including tobacco, tomato, pepper (all members of the useful Solanaceae), cucumbers, a number of ornamental flowers, and beans including Phaseolus vulgaris and Vigna unguiculata. There are many different strains. The first symptom of this virus disease is a light green coloration between the veins of young leaves. This is followed quickly by the development of a "mosaic" or mottled pattern of light and dark green areas in the leaves. Rugosity may also be seen where the infected plant leaves display small localized random wrinkles. These symptoms develop quickly and are more pronounced on younger leaves. Its infection does not result in plant death, but if infection occurs early in the season, plants are stunted. Lower leaves are subjected to "mosaic burn"  especially during periods of hot and dry weather. In these cases, large dead areas develop in the leaves. This constitutes one of the most destructive phases of Tobacco mosaic virus infection. Infected leaves may be crinkled, puckered, or elongated. However, if TMV infects crops like grape and apple, it is almost symptomless. TMV is able  to infect and complete its replication cycle in a plant pathogenic fungus,TMV is able to enter and replicate in cells of C. acutatum, C. clavatum, and C. theobromicola, which may not be an exception, although it has neither been found nor probably searched for in nature.	 Jerusalem cherry Tobacco mosaic virus

TSWV infects a variety of hosts, contributing to its global economic impact on crops. There are over a thousand different hosts for TSWV. The host range of TSWV includes agronomically important crops like tomatoes and tobacco. The symptoms of TSWV vary from host to host. There is also variability of symptoms within a single type of host due to the age of the plant, nutrition and the environment (especially temperature). Common symptoms include stunting, ringspots on fruit and necrosis of leaves. There are many different strains of TSWV, and differences in symptoms may also be attributed to the differences in the number of strains present.	 Jerusalem cherry Tomato spotted wilt virus

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 Persian violet Haematonectria haematococca

INSV has a wide host range and can be found in over 300 plant species including weeds, fruits, vegetables and ornamental crops. Of these, the most severely affected include tomatoes, lettuce, pepper and peppermint as well as most all ornamentals. Symptoms of infection include a downward curling of the leaves, leaf tip dieback, stunting, necrosis of growing leaf tips, sunken ‘chicken pox-like’ spots on leaves (often with a surrounding halo), stem death and yellowing.  Since these symptoms are so generic, extreme caution must be taken when introducing new plants to your greenhouse. Infected plants can not be cured and not all hosts display visible symptoms Western Flower Thrips are extremely hard to remove from their host plants, as they often dig themselves deep into blossoms, buds and other areas hard to reach with insecticides. So, even if plants are sprayed regularly with insecticide, INSV and other insect vectored viruses can not always be ruled out when forming diagnosis.Temperature and host both play an important factor when discussing the symptoms which an INSV infected plant will display. When New Guinea Impatiens are cultivated in an environment varying between 75 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit the host plant will be highly symptomatic. However, when New Guinea Impatiens are grown in an environment just 10 degrees cooler it is unlikely for there to be any observable symptoms of disease.	 Persian violet Impatiens necrotic spot virus

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 Persian violet Phytophthora nicotianae

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 Persian violet Rhizoctonia solani

Hosts of Aphanomyces euteiches can be annuals or perennials in the legume family, including: pea (Pisum sativum), alfalfa (Medicago sativa), snap bean and red kidney bean (Phaseolus vulgaris), faba bean (Vicia faba), red clover (Trifolium pratense), and white clover (Trifolium repens).  Of particular concern is Aphanomyces euteiches f.sp. pisi, which is responsible for pea root rot and is the most economically damaging form of pea root rot.  In North America, genetically distinct populations of A. euteiches demonstrate host specificity, but such specificity has not been observed in Europe.Because A. euteiches is a root-infecting pathogen, primary symptoms occur on roots and stem tissue below the soil line.  Infected roots often appear gray and water-soaked, eventually becoming soft and honey-brown or blackish-brown in appearance.  Infection causes a reduction in root volume and function, including reduced nodulation, leading to decreased water and nutrient up-take, which lead to above-ground secondary symptoms.  Symptoms in the above-ground plant tissue can include chlorosis of the cotyledons and necrosis of the epicotyls and/or hypocotyls, stunting, and wilting of foliage.  Some symptoms can differ among hosts.  Infected plants and patterns of infection in the field often correspond to areas in the field with poor soil drainage, which can be the result of soil compaction, soil texture (high clay content), or excessive wetness due to irrigation or rainfall.  Symptoms are generally similar among infected legumes, however timing and pattern of disease can differ among hosts and between annuals and perennials.  In both peas and beans, lesions tend to progress up the plant tissue, starting with the epicotyls and moving to the hypocotyls, eventually extending above the soil.  Lesions on pea epicotyls turn black, eventually creating a pinched region above the cotyledons as the result of pinched tissue.  Lesions on beans, on the other hand, have a characteristic water-soaked appearance, are grayish-green in color, and are firm to the touch.  In alfalfa symptoms include chlorotic cotyledons which may eventually become necrotic.Although the symptoms caused by A. euteiches can be difficult to distinguish from symptoms caused by other root-infecting plant pathogens (such as Pythium, Rhizoctonia, and Fusarium), there are some distinct differences.  Aphanomyces root rot rarely results in seed rot and/or pre-emergent damping-off.  The characteristic lesions caused by the different pathogens also differ.  Fusarium infection results in black or reddish vascular tissue, and Rhizoctonia infection results in sunken, cankerous lesions.A. euteiches exhibits no macroscopic signs, but oogonia and oospores can be seen in root tissue with a compound microscope.	 alfalfa Aphanomyces euteiches

A. ritezmabosi has a wide host range of almost 200 plant species, and is an important disease in chrysanthemum and other ornamentals.  Other ornamental hosts of A. ritzemabosi are anemones, asters, carnations, Chinaster, cinerarias, coneflowers,crassulas, creeping bellflower, dahlias, delphiniums, elders, lupines, monkeyflower, phlox,pouchflower, rhododendrons, sages, Siberian wallflower, water peperomia, and zinnias.A common symptom of A. ritezmabosi is seen when the nematode is feeding in the foliar tissue.  Angular lesions are formed, which are chlorotic at first then turn necrotic as the feeding persists.  A sign that an A. ritzeambosi nematode is feeding in the bud of a plant is brown scars on the bud and surrounding tissue.  The nematode also produces secretions that have the ability to cause several other symptoms in infested plants including shortening of inter-nodes, creating a bushy appearance, browning and failure of the shoot to grow, as well as distorted leaf formation.	 alfalfa Aphelenchoides ritzemabosi

When the infection occurs in an early stage of the tomato plant there may be wilting on leaves because Clavibacter michiganensis subsp. michiganensis enter the plant by wounds, including root wounds, and if the bacterium gets to the xylem then a systemic infection is likely that may plug the xylem vessels. The wilting may only show on one side of the leaf and may recover during cooler periods. The entire system of xylem within the plant allows the bacteria to form titers of up to 109 bacteria per gram of plant tissue. Wilting may eventually spread to all leaves and these leaves, along with their petioles, may also show distorted, curled growth. One way to diagnose a severe vascular infection is to pinch the stem. If the epidermis and outer layer of the cortex separate from the inner stem then there is severe vascular infection. These exposed parts will have a soapy feel. Canker lesions, though rare, may develop on the stem. These cankers are necrotic regions where the epidermis is gone. As the bacteria continues its colonization, the canker will deepen and expand. In terms of fruit development, tomatoes may fail to develop altogether or may look marbled because they are ripening unevenly.If infection occurs at a late stage of plant development, plants are able to survive and generate fruits. However, the plant may appear stressed rather than wilted and may develop white interveinal areas that will develop into brown necrotic tissue. Often the seeds are infected as well.Superficial infections increase the risk of epidemics. They occur when the bacteria multiply on the epidermis of the host, enter through stomata, or enter through a very shallow wound that does not allow the pathogen to reach the xylem tissue. The host may look like it was rubbed with cornmeal or coarse flour but it is actually a series of blisters that me be raised or sunken and appear white to pale orange. The most common leaf symptom is a dark brown spot surrounded by a sort of orange-like area on the edge of the leaf. Fruits may develop "bird's eye" spotting, which are pale green to white raised pustules that have a brown center and chlorotic halo. Pictures of these symptoms are available at the cited reference.However, latent infections are common.The Clavibacter michiganensis subsp. michiganensis wild type strain NCPPB382 carries two plasmids associated with virulence: pCM1 and pCM2. The avirulent strain, CMM100, does not contain these plasmids. Strains that carried one of the two plasmids were found to be virulent but wilting symptoms were delayed. The virulent and avirulent strains produced the same amount of exopolysaccharides, suggesting that EPS does not play a significant role in pathogenicity.	 alfalfa Clavibacter michiganensis

This virus was first characterized in cucumbers (Cucumis sativus) showing mosaic symptoms in 1934, hence the name Cucumber mosaic. Since then, it has been found to infect a great variety of other plants. These include other vegetables such as squash, melons, peppers, eggplants, tomatoes, beans, carrots, celery, lettuce, spinach, beets, many ornamentals and bedding plants, such as Narcissus, and various weeds. Its presence has been confirmed on every continent of the world, including Antarctica.Symptoms seen with this virus include leaf mosaic or mottling (Fig. 1), yellowing, ringspots, stunting, and leaf, flower and fruit distortion. CMV also induces a type of symptom on leaves known as the "shoestring" effect on many host species. This effect causes young leaves to appear narrow and the entire plant to be stunted.Specifically, CMV can cause cucumbers to turn pale and bumpy. The leaves of these plants turn mosaic and their rugosity is often changed, making leaves wrinkled and misshapen. Growth of these plants is usually also stunted and produces few flowers. Often, cucumber fruits are oddly shaped, appear gray, and tested bitter. These appearances lead to them being referred to as "white pickles".Tomato plants are usually stunted and have poorly shaped leaves, or "fernleaf", when infected by CMV. Also certain strains of CMV can cause partial or total crop loss. CMV in peppers causes slightly different symptoms than the previously mentioned. Pepper plants often have severe foliar damage, shown as mosaic and necrotic rings. Often the peppers themselves are misshapen and contain chlorotic rings and spots. In celery, CMV causes streaking and spotting and can be often confused with symptoms of the celery mosaic virus. Symptoms of CMV in lettuce, such as chlorosis, plant stunting and often do not properly head, can be very similar to those of lettuce mosaic virus.CMV has also been identified in a lesser extent to a number of plant species. It is found to be a minor virus infecting Allium crops. The virus infection causes extensive malformation on garlic plants, and mild malformation to severe necrotic streaks on onion leaves. The severe damages on garlic plants and difficulty of aphids transmission of garlic isolate, were possible causal for the rare CMV on garlic. Genetically, the two onion isolates from Turkey (CMV-14.3Po and CMV-15.5Po) are highly similar to others isolated from various plant species in Mediterranean, European, and East Asian countries. CMV was also detected on American beautyberry, an important wildlife and pollinator food source plant native to North America.In plant tissue this virus makes characteristic viral inclusion bodies which can be diagnostic. They are hexagonal in shape (Fig. 2) and stain both in a protein stain and a nucleic acid stain. The inclusions can also be rhomboidal, may appear hollow (Fig. 2) and can form larger aggregates. The inclusions are not uniformly distributed and can be found in epidermal (Fig. 2), mesophyll, and stomatal cells. These inclusions are made up of virus particles.			 alfalfa Cucumber mosaic virus

D. dipsaci has an extensive host range. Major damage occurs in garlic, onion, carrot, fava bean, alfalfa, oats, and strawberry. Ornamental plants can also be infected including hyacinth and tulip. It is estimated that this pathogen infects 400–500 plant species worldwide.In Allium species (onions, garlic, and leeks), infected plants show characteristic symptoms including stunted growth, yellow spots, leaf curl, and foliage lesions. Stems often have swollen regions called “spikkles.” As adult nematodes migrate into the scales of the bulb, and the scales become soft, grey, and loosely packed. Highly infected bulbs can also split apart or show malformed bloating. The leaves of the plant become flaccid and may collapse. This can lead to defoliated plants. Garlic shows similar symptoms of leaf yellowing and stunted bulbs. When harvested, the infected garlic may be missing portions of the root system.In fava beans (Vicia faba), symptoms of infection include reddish-brown stem lesions that can turn black. Young bean pods are dark-brown. Infected seeds are smaller and distorted compared to healthy beans. Speckles and spots are also commonly seen on infected fava beans.Up to 30 biological races occur within D. dipsaci that are mostly distinguished by their host preferences. Very little morphological differences are seen between the races which makes diagnosis difficult. Seed material samples from infected plants can be dissected and viewed under a microscope to confirm the correct race.	 alfalfa Ditylenchus dipsaci

D. dadantii is phytopathogenic bacterium causing soft rot diseases on many host plants including some which are economically important. D. dadantii, more commonly known as: soft rot, brown rot or blackleg, causes characteristic symptoms associated with other bacterial wilts, causing final diagnosis to be difficult. The pathogen primarily seeks to attack the plant's xylem vessels located in leaves, stems, blossoms and storage organs of herbaceous plants. D. dadantii is able to infect hosts at any point in its life cycle. In addition to symptoms of wilt, the disease appears as sunken and cracked external lesions also having a brown interior in cross section in subterranean bulbs and tubers Diseased plants will display a variety of symptoms including: wilting, stunting and vascular discoloration of the stems. Early symptoms include water soaked lesions at the site of infection, gradually expanding chlorotic leaves and loss of turgor in tissues. The intensity of D. dadantii colonization relates to the amount of disease and degree of damage. The pathogen is very successful at infiltrating host tissues due to the many pectinases responsible for disassembly of plant cell wall polysaccharides. Once the cell wall is degraded cellular structure collapses and this cell maceration gives a characteristic "water-soaked" or rotted appearance. D. dadantii grow intercellularly, continuing to degrade cells and colonize, until it eventually reaches xylem tissues. Upon reaching the xylem vessels D. dadantii possesses the ability to spread to new regions of the host and other areas may begin to display symptoms. Colonization within the xylem restricts flow of water causing loss of turgor pressure and wilting of foliage and stems. Restricted movement of important plant compounds eventually lead to death of the host.	 alfalfa Erwinia chrysanthemi

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 alfalfa Fusarium solani

In susceptible crops, any parts below the ground are liable to infection. The mycelium of the fungus forms a matted, felt-like purple covering which grows over the surface of the root. Soil particles adhere to this and small, dark-coloured sclerotia grow among the hyphae. A dry rot occurs and secondary rots may move in. Mycelial threads, often merging into strands, grow through the soil and infect nearby plants. A pink or brown mat of mycelial threads may grow above the soil surface. In affected plants, the aerial parts may wilt and have discoloured, stunted foliage.	 alfalfa Helicobasidium brebissonii

L. taurica is the pathogen responsible for powdery mildew on onions, but it can also infect peppers, tomatoes, eggplant, cotton, and garlic. While L. taurica can infect many different plants it is actually very host specific. Different races of L. taurica can only infect certain crops, and even specific cultivars within the same crop. An accurate way to describe its host specificity is that this disease is, “a composite species consisting of many host-specific races." Symptoms of Onion Powdery Mildew (OPM) are usually seen as circular or oblong lesions that are 5 to 20 mm and have a chlorotic or necrotic appearance. The lesions appear on older leaves before the bulb of the onion begins to form, but also can occur on the younger leaves towards the end of the season. As the disease progresses signs of OPM can also be seen. On the lesions white mycelium can be found with conidiophores bearing either lanceolate or rounded condia.	 alfalfa Leveillula taurica

One of the most harmful seed and soil borne pathogens, Macrophomina phaseolina is a fungus that infects nearly 500 plant species in more than 100 families. The hosts include: peanut, cabbage, pepper, chickpea, soybean, sunflower, sweet potato, alfalfa, sesame, potato, sorghum, wheat, and corn, among others. The identification of isolates of M. phaseolina is usually based on morphology and efforts to divide the pathogen into subspecies, but because there are wide intraspecific variations in the phenotype of the isolates, these criteria are often not reliable. The failure to correctly detect and identify M. phaseolina using conventional culture-based morphological techniques has led scientists to develop nucleic acid-based molecular approaches, such as highly sensitive and specific polymerase chain reaction-based methods. Researchers have also recently created species-specific oligonucleotide primers and digoxigenin-labeled probes in hopes of better identifying and detecting M. phaseolina.The pathogen M. phaseolina affects the fibrovascular system of the roots and basal internodes of its host, impeding the transport of water and nutrients to the upper parts of the plant. As a result, progressive wilting, premature dying, loss of vigor, and reduced yield are characteristic symptoms of M. phaseolina infection. The fungus also causes many diseases like damping off, seedling blight, collar rot, stem rot, charcoal rot, basal stem rot, and root rot. Although brown lesions may form on the hypocotyls or emerging seedlings, many symptoms occur during or after flowering, including grey discoloration of the stem and taproots, shredding of plant tissue in the stem and top of the taproot, and hollowing of the stem. Small black dots may form beneath the epidermis of the lower stem and in the taproot, giving the stems and roots a charcoal-sprinkled appearance. When the epidermis is removed, small and black microsclerotia (a sign of the disease) may be so numerous that they give a greyish-black tint to the plant tissue. In addition, reddish-brown discoloration and black streaks can form in the pith and vascular tissues of the root and stem.	 alfalfa Macrophomina phaseolina

These nematodes cause symptoms both on leaves and roots. Foliar symptoms of root-knot disease may be expressed at any time during the growing season. These symptoms of nematode damage on peanut plants range from stunting, yellowing, wilting and even plant death.  Ferris (1999–2012), also reported that nematodes cause yellowing; mid-day wilting; symptoms of water and nutrient stress; and sometimes death, especially if the nematode is interacting with other organisms.  They can appear in a peanut crop beginning about 100 days after planting or after periods of dry hot weather.  Areas of root-knot nematode damaged peanut are usually round to oblong in shape, and rows of infected plants may never overlap as those of healthy plants. It is common for plants to wilt and eventually die in areas where nematode populations are high.Root symptoms are similar to those caused by all nematodes including a reduction in number of feeder roots and root stunting, but root knot nematodes cause unique symptoms on roots and pods. Nematodes cause galls (knots) to form on both roots and pods of the peanut, and these galls are highly diagnostic for root-knot nematode presence compared to other nematodes affecting peanut. The presence of galls on roots, pegs and pods appears as single or multiple wart-like growths that may or may not be discolored. As root knot nematode infection progresses, and generally later in the season, secondary root and pod rots cause further damage and eventual death of the plants.Many soil-borne fungi, especially Sclerotium rolfsii (which causes southern stem rot) and Sclerotinia minor (which causes Sclerotinia blight), will infect the weakened peanut plants and cause more plant death. Root knot nematode infection of the peg weakens the peg so that it breaks during harvest, contributing to additional yield losses because the detached pods are then left in the soil. Infection of the pods leads to a decline in yield quality.The damage threshold, or the initial nematode population density at which peanut yields begin to decline, has been reported to be in the range of 1 to 10 eggs and second stage juveniles per 500 cm3 soil for M. arenaria on susceptible peanut cultivars.	 alfalfa Meloidogyne arenaria

Meloidogyne hapla (Northern root-knot nematode) has a wide host range. It is polyphagous and affects over 550 crops and weeds. It feeds on many agricultural and horticultural plants (vegetables, fruits, ornamentals), but few grasses or cereals. A list of known hosts can be found at the bottom of this page.Symptoms can be seen in the roots, leaves, and the overall growth of the infected plant. In roots, there may be stunting, wilting, and the formation of abnormal growths called galls. Galls are usually small and spherical and are situated near many small roots. They are formed when the nematode enters the root and releases chemicals to enlarge root cells, on which they feed. The roots become defective and therefore cannot transport water and nutrients properly. The end result is stunted, wilted, and yellowing plants (characteristic of nutrient deficiency) and a decreased yield. Severity of the symptoms depends on nematode population density and host plant species and cultivar. As the number of nematodes increase in the area, the number and size of root galls increase as well. Each crop responds to Meloidogyne hapla differently. Carrots typically undergo severe forking with galling of the roots, lettuce have beadlike galls, and grasses and onions have small and barely noticeable galls and symptoms. In potato tubers (special stems), brown spots will appear on areas of the tubers where the females have laid their eggs.If a field has a patchy distribution of symptoms, it usually indicates the presence of nematodes. Most nematodes are not usually distributed uniformly in the soil. To correctly identify Meloidogyne hapla, the infected plant should be sent to a lab for a proper diagnosis. One common method is perineal pattern analysis where the perineum of the female nematode (area between the anus and the vulva) is examined for a specific pattern in ridges and annulations. Another common method is analyzing isozyme (different variations of the same enzyme produced by different genes) electrophoretic profiles using esterase and malate dehydrogenase.	 alfalfa Meloidogyne hapla

Plants affected by M. incognita present above ground symptoms of water- and nutrient-stress, yellowing, wilting, and stunting. Below ground galling on roots, bulbs, tubers is the typical symptom. Plant death may occur in high infestation level.	 alfalfa Meloidogyne incognita

Because there are so many different hosts for this pathogen, the symptoms are very variable. Common symptoms include abnormal leaf color, abnormal leaf form, wilting leaves, galls, swollen roots, reduced root system, dwarfing and senescence (Cabi 2018). This pathogen does the most damage when present in light soils with hot weather conditions (Alford 2012).	 alfalfa Meloidogyne javanica

Mycoleptodiscus terrestris is an ascomycete with a wide host range that includes several types of popular aquatic weeds that have become invasive in their problem states – mainly southern states. But aside from them the pathogen also infects several types of alfalfa and legumes and have been seen to infect plants all the way up to Minnesota. This disease is known to cause several symptoms in affected hosts including: leaf spot, crowning, and lots of root rot. These symptoms are what cause major yield loss and is why this pathogen is so important to our agricultural systems.	 alfalfa Mycoleptodiscus terrestris

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 alfalfa Nectria haematococca

Paratylenchus spp. nematodes have a wide variety of hosts with a recorded 25 different plants it is able to infect.  Paratylenchus hamatus feeds on the roots of fig trees, celery, grapes, and peaches. P. hamatus has also been documented to cause patchy areas of chlorosis and wilting in lentils, resulting in up to 40% yield loss. Symptoms appear in patches or clusters and plants show a slow and general decline in growth and vigor. Common symptoms of infection are that of other root nematodes; stunted growth of the plant as well as the roots, chlorosis, leaf drop, reduced plant weight or yield, and undersized fruit are all symptoms which may be seen.  These symptoms are universal across the different plant species it infects.  Shallow localized lesions on the roots can be seen at feeding sites.  No signs are present with the exception of the nematodes themselves and their eggs, which are not visible to the naked eye.	 alfalfa Paratylenchus hamatus

Peronospora trifoliorum commonly infects numerous strains and varieties of alfalfa. On alfalfa, the primary symptoms of Peronospora trifoliorum are chlorotic leaf blotches that range from light green to yellow-green to gray-green; rolled or downturned leaves; and thickened, stunted stems ending in rosette-like growths. The main method of identifying the disease is by the moldy, downy growth on the underside of leaves that appears white, gray, or light purple as this is a diagnostic sign of downy mildew of alfalfa (Davis, Frate, and Putnam, 2017). Only seedlings and young tissue are susceptible to infection which, with proper cultural controls, can limit the development and progression of the disease. There is also the potential for secondary infection, which can occur every five days during ideal conditions (Goldberg, 2000).Peronospora trifoliorum has been reported from Trifolium repens but it is uncommon.	 alfalfa Peronospora trifoliorum

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 alfalfa Phymatotrichopsis omnivora

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 alfalfa Phymatotrichum omnivorum

P. medicaginis is a water mould pathogen that causes root rot and damping off of seedlings. P. medicaginis is specific to alfalfa and chickpea and can reside in soil or water, but since it is a water mold, it requires free water to infect another plant. This disease is most prevalent in newly seeded fields that experience flooding but can also be found in mature plants. P. medicaginis commonly causes seedling death but if this pathogen is present in mature crops, P. medicaginis causes root rot which limits the plant's ability to acquire nutrients and water. This leads to secondary symptoms such as chlorosis, wilting, stunting, root decay, lesions and death. This disease is difficult to identify but reddish-brown or black root lesions will exist and oospores, sporangia, zoospores, antheridia, and oogonia are spore types that will be visible under a microscope. An ELISA test can confirm the presence of Phytophthora, but to confirm the species, a PCR test is effective. Several host factors will affect disease development including damage/stress to the plant and also the degree of resistance of host cultivar.	 alfalfa Phytophthora medicaginis

P. medicaginis is a water mould pathogen that causes root rot and damping off of seedlings. P. medicaginis is specific to alfalfa and chickpea and can reside in soil or water, but since it is a water mold, it requires free water to infect another plant. This disease is most prevalent in newly seeded fields that experience flooding but can also be found in mature plants. P. medicaginis commonly causes seedling death but if this pathogen is present in mature crops, P. medicaginis causes root rot which limits the plant's ability to acquire nutrients and water. This leads to secondary symptoms such as chlorosis, wilting, stunting, root decay, lesions and death. This disease is difficult to identify but reddish-brown or black root lesions will exist and oospores, sporangia, zoospores, antheridia, and oogonia are spore types that will be visible under a microscope. An ELISA test can confirm the presence of Phytophthora, but to confirm the species, a PCR test is effective. Several host factors will affect disease development including damage/stress to the plant and also the degree of resistance of host cultivar.	 alfalfa Phytophthora megasperma f.sp. medicaginis

Root lesion nematodes infect a great variety of hosts. Pratylenchus penetrans alone has over 350 host plants. They include agricultural crops such as soybeans, potatoes, corn, bananas, and wheat. The genus is found most often in corn. Signs of disease are similar in most plants and generally include necrotic lesions of the roots. The lesions can also be entrances for pathogenic bacteria and fungi, which produce secondary infections. Above ground the plant becomes stunted, chlorotic, and wilted, and it often dies. A crop field may be patchy as plants wither and die. Root lesion nematodes can cause significant yield losses.	 alfalfa Pratylenchus

Root lesion nematode has a wide host range, including hosts like apple, cherry, conifers, roses, tomato, potato, corn, onion and sugarbeets, and ornamentals such as Narcissus. More than 164 hosts for P. penetrans have been recorded.  In the host range there are some hosts that are susceptible, such as wheat, oat, field pea, faba bean, and chickpea, and some that are moderately susceptible, such as barley and canola.Some general symptoms that are produced on infected plants include poor growth, fruit spot, and chlorotic foliage.  These secondary symptoms are often due to plant root stress.  These make it rather difficult to diagnose nematode diseases in general.  The roots when infected produce necrotic lesions, which are darkened areas of dead tissue, on the surface and throughout the cortex of the infected roots.  These lesions turn the root to reddish-brown to black and are initially spotty.  As the nematode continues to feed, the lesions can coalesce to become large necrotic areas of tissue that may eventually girdle the root. The population size of the nematode affects the degree of symptoms.  Low to moderate populations may cause no visible above ground symptoms, while high populations can lead to stunting, nutrient and water deficiencies, and eventual die-back of the plant.  On potato, infection of root lesion nematode can cause a secondary invasion by Verticillium dahliae leading to Potato Early Dying.  Onions are another important host of P. penetrans.  Onions are an important vegetable for consumption in the United States and upon infection the nematodes can limit yield and quality of the bulbs.  Populations of more than 0.01 nematode per cubic centimeter of soil resulted in injury to onions.  There is a negative relationship between the increasing inoculum levels on onion root and top fresh weight at harvest.	 alfalfa Pratylenchus penetrans

Kiwis are grown in countries such as Italy, New Zealand, China, and Chile making this bacterium a problem in kiwi-growing regions across the world. Kiwis have a long growing season from the beginning of spring to the fall which indicates that kiwis grow in warmer temperatures, but colder temperatures are important for the leaves to fall of the vine and for new buds to form in the spring. The pathogen, Pseudomonas viridiflava, was first discovered in kiwifruit in New Zealand in 1973. It has been discovered on 31 other plant species such as tomato, melon, eggplant, and blight. Symptoms on each host differ slightly, but in general, this bacterium causes a soft rot in the stem or flowering structures, not in woody tissues, which results in these structures turning brown and dying.To continue, the symptoms of this bacterial blight include spots and lesions on leaves, and rot of floral buds and flowers. The floral symptoms undergo changes throughout the seasons that ultimately end in the floral bud dying and falling off. These symptoms are found initially as brown and sunken spots on the green sepals of the vine that enclose the flower buds. The result is the flower buds begin to rot when unopened. If the buds do open and yield a yellow-orange color, rather than white, the flower turns brown rather quickly and dies. In addition, the anthers or male sexual parts of the flower can be destroyed in this disease causing an incomplete retraction of sepals. Regarding the leaves, symptoms are visible in later spring and are found on the lower leaves first. The lesions created are angular and gray on the lower leaves, and the lesions are surrounded with a yellow halo on the upper leaves. These lesions turn brown and can be a site for a secondary infection by a fungus or some other pathogen. All of this leads to abnormal fruit development on diseased plants which can create an economic problem for the grower. Fruit development is the largest economical concern when referring to this pathogen. Yield loss can become very high, reaching over 90% in orchards that have symptoms of this pathogen. When no symptoms are present, however, the plant is healthy and fruit development is normal. It is stated that it is very rare to find normal fruit development on plants with symptoms of bacterial blight showing how detrimental this disease and pathogen is.Furthermore, host factors have had an influence on this disease. Pseudomonas viridiflava can survive on the surface of the plant as an epiphyte, meaning it is present on leaves without disease occurring. This allows the pathogen to associate itself with the healthy kiwifruit vine by maintaining a non-pathological relationship with the host. This pathogen also utilizes its large host range to survive on other hosts when not infecting a kiwifruit vine. Lastly, the host does not do anything specifically to help this disease spread, but does not have the proper defense mechanisms to prevent the bacterium from surviving on the plant or stopping this disease from spreading throughout.	 alfalfa Pseudomonas viridiflava

Common leaf spot on alfalfa is a foliar disease caused by the pathogen Pseudopeziza medicaginis. P. medicaginis is an ascomycete and can also cause leaf spot in crops like red clover. Although not much research has been done on this specific disease, it has been reported as the most common alfalfa disease and it causes the greatest yield loss in alfalfa crops for over 100 years (Jones, 1919). It has been shown in multiple studies that it can cause up to 40% loss in yield but average losses are closer to 18% (Nutter et al., 2002). The first symptoms of leaf spot are small circular lesions that form on the lowest leaves on the plant. These lesions are usually less than 2mm in diameter and are brown or black in color with smooth margins (Johnson, 2019). The younger leaves show symptoms first, but the disease works its way up the plant. Eventually, the leaves will become so diseased that they will turn yellow and fall off. Pseudopeziza medicaginis will not kill the plant but there will be a reduction in quality and yield (Long, 2017). Leaf spots start to appear 5 – 13 days after inoculation and apothecia are formed 14 days inoculation (Samac, Rhodes, and Lamp, 2015). In the center of the lesion, a dark colored raised disk can be observed and is known as the apothecium. This feature is a diagnostic sign of the disease (UW Extension, 2006). These ascocarps contain the asci which eventually release ascospores to infect more tissues. If the disease progresses enough, elliptical lesions can be observed on the succulent stems. These lesions are not commonly found and do not produce fruiting bodies (UW Extension, 2006).	 alfalfa Pseudopeziza medicaginis

Pythium irregulare is an oomycete that causes pre- and post-emergence damping off, as well as root rot. Pre-emergence damping off occurs when P. irregulare infects seeds before they emerge, causing them to rot and turn brown, thus preventing successful growth. Alternatively, post-emergence damping off occurs when the oomycete infects just after the seed has germinated. This usually causes infection in the roots and stem which appears as water soaking and necrosis. Depending on the severity, plants may collapse or be severely stunted. In plants that are older and more established, P. irregulare causes root rot. This will initially cause necrotic lesions, which leads to chlorosis, reduced yield, poor growth, and stunting due to inadequate water and nutrient acquisition by the roots. Additionally, P. irregulare is often found coinfecting with other Pythium species. All three of these diseases caused by P. irregulare can be caused by other pathogens as well, so a disease diagnosis is not necessarily indicative of P. irregulareIn order to identify Pythium irregulare it is necessary to isolate the organism and observe it microscopically. First, it is important to identify that the microbe is an oomycete by looking for characteristics that are specific to oomycetes, such as coenocytic hyphae, zoospores, and oospores. After that, one can identify the microbe as being in the genera Pythium by observing disease symptoms, host range, as well as the presence of a vesicle, where zoospores form, which is attached to the sporangia. In contrast, most other oomycetes do not have a vesicle and the zoospores form in the sporangia. Finally, once the genera has been identified, it is helpful to use a dichotomous key to identify the species. Some of the key identifiers for P. irregulare include oogonia with irregular shaped, cylindrical projections, sporangia that occur singly, sporangia that are not filamentous, and oogonia smaller than 30 μm. There are also many genomic tests that can be done to determine species based on specific DNA markers. It is also important to note that many diagnosticians do not identify to the species level because it can be difficult to find all necessary microscopic structures and many management techniques can be applied to all Pythium species.Pythium irregulare has a very broad host range, including many agronomically and horticulturally important crops and is found on every continent except for Antarctica. P. irregulare infects over 200 species, including cereals, legumes, fruits, vegetables, and ornamentals. It differs from many other Pythium species in that it prefers cooler environments. A moist environment is also necessary for disease, which aids motility of spores. It is commonly found in both greenhouses and fields.	 alfalfa Pythium irregulare

In susceptible crops, any parts below the ground are liable to infection. The mycelium of the fungus forms a matted, felt-like purple covering which grows over the surface of the root. Soil particles adhere to this and small, dark-coloured sclerotia grow among the hyphae. A dry rot occurs and secondary rots may move in. Mycelial threads, often merging into strands, grow through the soil and infect nearby plants. A pink or brown mat of mycelial threads may grow above the soil surface. In affected plants, the aerial parts may wilt and have discoloured, stunted foliage.	 alfalfa Rhizoctonia crocorum

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 alfalfa Rhizoctonia solani

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 alfalfa Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

Typhula spp. impacts cool season turfgrass that experiences extended periods of snow cover. These species of hosts can include creeping bentgrass, annual ryegrass, and perennial ryegrass. Some of its more common hosts include fine fescue, tall fescue, and Kentucky bluegrass. Symptoms of the pathogen often manifest in all species the same way; as circular patches 6 inches to a foot in diameter of dead or damaged turfgrass. Sometimes patches can be as large as three feet and can merge into other patches. These “scars” in the turf can remain until May or early June. Dead plant tissue becomes matted and blades become grayish and brittle after drying. Signs of the disease can include visible mycelium on turf after snow clears and dark brown or black sclerotia structures embedded in dead plant tissue.	 alfalfa Snow mold

The fungal pathogen Phoma medicaginis attacks the host alfalfa. Numerous spots develop on the lower leaves, petioles, and stems. The disease produces small black spots on the leaves which eventually turn the leaf yellow, resulting in chlorosis and eventually cell death. Spots are usually worse on older leaves. Stem lesions are dark brown to black and may cut the stem all the way around its surface. Lesions on stems enlarge and may blacken large areas near the base of the plant. Affected stems are brittle and easily broken. When at its worst, entire stems can be blackened and killed. This can cause spread of the disease to the crowns and roots, also turning them black. When the fungus extends into the crown and root, it can cause crown and root rot.	 alfalfa Spring black stem

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 alfalfa Thanatephorus cucumeris

TSV has been reported worldwide in North and South America, Europe, India, Japan, Australia, New Zealand and South America. TSV has a wide host range including both monocots and dicots.  Economically important crop hosts include peanuts, sunflower, soybean, cranberry, cotton, chickpea and mung beans.  As with many plant viruses, diagnosis is very difficult because TSV has very wide host range and has different effects depending on the host being infected. Symptoms of TSV may include black streaks on stems and leaves, stunted growth, chlorosis, leaf mosaic, lodging, and deformed growing tips, to name a few. On tobacco plants, TSV causes chlorosis, with a unique pattern of white or dark necrotic leaf tissue close to the veins of the leaf.  As its name implies, necrotic streaks are found on leaf veins of infected plants.  Symptoms are strongly influenced by temperature.  For example, plants experiencing a temperature of 20° Celsius will develop small necrotic spots while at temperatures above 30° Celsius, necrotic spots will become large necrotic arcs. Symptoms are not sufficient to correctly identify TSV - serology and PCR techniques are required.	 alfalfa Tobacco streak virus

There are many strains of Verticillium dahliae which are categorized into vegetative compatibility groups (VCG). These groups comprise strains that are able to exchange genetic material via anastomosis. Each VCG affects a few or only one host and the virulence of the pathogen varies by host. While individual V. dahliae strains are relatively host specific, as a species it has a wide range.Verticillium dahliae has a very wide host range, affecting over 300 plant species. Some susceptible crops include Brussels sprouts, cabbage, eggplant, cucumbers, mint, pepper, potatoes, pumpkin, spinach, tomato, watermelon, honeydew, and cantaloupe. Of these, tomato, potato, and eggplant have resistant or tolerant varieties.Symptoms of this disease are seen throughout the plant. Leaves may have abnormal coloration, necrotic areas, wilt, and/or fall off the plant. The stem may have discolored vascular tissue, exhibit rosetting (shortened internodes of the plant caused by reduced growth, resulting in a rosette-like appearance), and/or be stunted. Early senescence and dieback may also occur.Microsclerotia can be seen under a lens as small black structures in the vasculature of living and dead plants. This feature can be used to distinguish V. dahliae from V. albo-atrum, the other verticillium wilt pathogen.	 alfalfa Verticillium dahliae

The symptoms that plants exhibit in response to the pathogenicity of Xiphinema americanum are similar to those of other migratory ectoparasitic nematodes of roots. It is common to see poor growth and or stunting of the plant, yellowing or wilting of the foliage, and reduced root systems which can include root necrosis, lack of feeder or secondary roots, and occasional tufts of stubby rootlets.Young, shortleaved yellow pine trees with moderate swelling of roots with clusters of short, stubby branches were the first demonstration of X. americanum pathogenicity in 1955. X. americanum can also cause severe effects on foliage, sometimes causing chlorosis and complete defoliation as seen on Guatemalan coffee trees. The dagger nematode causes the devitalization of root tips and overall root death when they feed at the root tips and root sides of strawberry plants. Reddish-brown lesions that turn black and necrotic with time result at the sites of feeding, and result in reduced root systems and stunted tops.Xiphinema americanum is listed as a C-rated pest in California due to its wide host range of California crops. C-rated pests are widespread, and are of known economic or environmental detriment, according to The California Department of Food and Agriculture. Due to X. americanum's difficulty in maintaining high populations in frequently tilled soils (see Control), the dagger nematode is mainly an economic problem on biennial and perennial crops rather than annual crops (except for damage to emerging seedlings).	 alfalfa Xiphinema americanum

Significant variation in symptoms is seen between diseases, though some symptoms are expressed across species. On a macroscopic scale, plants infected with a X. fastidiosa-related disease exhibit symptoms of water, zinc, and iron deficiencies, manifesting as leaf scorching and stunting in leaves turning them yellowish-brown, gummy substance around leaves, fruit reduction in size and quality, and overall plant height.  As the bacterium progressively colonizes xylem tissues, affected plants often block off their xylem tissue, which can limit the spread of this pathogen; blocking can occur in the form of polysaccharide-rich gels, tyloses, or both.  These plant defenses do not seem to hinder the movement of X. fastidiosa. Occlusion of vascular tissue, while a normal plant response to infection, makes symptoms significantly worse; as the bacterium itself also reduces vascular function, a 90% reduction of vascular hydraulic function was seen in susceptible Vitis vinifera.  This bacterium rarely completely blocks vascular tissue. There usually is a slight amount of vascular function that keeps the plant alive, but makes its fruit or branches die, making the specific plant economically nonproductive. This can cause a massive drop on supply of quality fruit. Smaller colonies usually occur throughout a high proportion of xylem vessels of a symptomatic plant.X. fastidiosa is a Gram-negative, xylem-limited illness that is spread by insects. It can damage a variety of broadleaved tree species that are commonly grown in the United States. X. Fastidiosa can be found in about 600 different plant species.Withering and desiccation of branchesLeaf chlorosisDwarfing or lack of growth of the plantDrooping appearance and shorter internodesShriveled fruits on infected plantsPremature fruit abscissiongum-like substance on leavehardening and size reduction of fruit	 alfalfa Xylella fastidiosa

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 almond Alternaria alternata

Armillaria mellea typically infects hardwood trees and conifers but sometimes will infect non-woody monocots and a few herbaceous plants. There are few signs, and the ones that do exist are often hard to find. The most prominent sign is honey-colored mushrooms at the base of the infected plant. Additional signs include white, fan-shaped mycelia and black rhizomorphs with diameters between 1/32nd of an inch and 1/8th of an inch. These usually are not as noticeable because they occur beneath the bark and in the soil, respectively. The symptoms are much more numerous, including slower growth, dieback of branches, yellowing foliage, rotted wood at base and/or roots, external cankers, cracking bark, bleeding stem, leaf wilting, defoliation, and rapid death. Leaf wilting, defoliation, and dieback occur after the destruction of the cambium.	 almond Armillaria mellea

Often, food illnesses are not attributed to A. parasiticus because it is mistaken for A. flavus. Serious symptoms of aflatoxin exposure by either ingestion or inhalation of spores, or through direct skin contact, can occur amongst humans and animals. Signs and symptoms of exposure in humans may include delayed development and stunted growth among children, while adults may experience teratogenic effects, lung damage, ulcers, skin irritation, fever, and acute liver disease, which can later lead to liver carcinoma and death.	 almond Aspergillus parasiticus

An irregular browning leaf margin which may or may not be bordered by a pale halo.Symptoms re-occur every year, spreading throughout the tree crown, eventually killing the host plant.	 almond Bacterial leaf scorch

Ceratocystis fimbriata is an ascomycete fungal pathogen. The species as a whole can infect a wide variety of hosts, but particular strains are host-specific. One example is the Ipomoea form of the fungus, which is specific to sweet potato (Ipomea batatas) and wild morning glory. Symptoms can be found on the fleshy root or visible in plants. On sweet potato, Ceratocystis fimbriata causes a disease called 'black rot,' which displays firm and dry circular brown/black rots. Infected plants often show stunted growth, wilting, and yellowing. Wilting occurs because this pathogen can also travel through xylem and infect vascular system. During disease, white, fuzzy mycelia with long black perithecia grow out from the lesions. Additionally, research demonstrates that sweet potatoes infected with C. fimbriata demonstrate increased respiration which is partially due to the infection's influence on protein metabolism. Higher respiration rates cause dry weight loss in the tubers which poses a problem for marketability.	 almond Ceratocystis fimbriata

Cherry mottle leaf virus (CMLV) has a wide range of hosts. It infects the genus Prunus including cherry (Prunus avium) and peach (P. persica) trees. More specifically, CMLV infects both sweet and bitter/wild type (P. emarginata) cherry trees. The most common propagation host is the Chenopodium quinoa  and the most common infected trees in the field are Bing and Napoleon trees. CMLV can be transmitted by budding and grafting with infected budwood from infected bitter cherry trees or symptomless peach trees. It is important to note that not all diseased hosts show symptoms which can make diagnoses challenging. When symptoms are observed, they are mostly found on the leaves themselves. Leaves can be mottled with yellow and green chlorotic patterns between the veins. Other leaf symptoms include leaf distortion, and puckering of the younger leaves. The fruit that are produced can be small, flavorless and ripen later in the season. In general, affected trees may appear stunted.	 almond Cherry mottle leaf virus

Colletotrichum acutatum has a broad host range, but is most important in strawberries. C.  acutatum on strawberries. The pathogen causes black spot of fruit, but can also be seen attacking the plant at its crowns, roots and leaves. After planting, stunting and yellowing as well as wilting may occur. General symptoms of the disease in other plants can also be seen on flowers, petioles, and roots.  Stems are also a prominent place to see symptoms. Lesions on the stem can appear dark colored, oval shaped, and possibly have immersed spots located on petioles and runners.  Once C.acutatum infects these parts of the plant, it can cause other diseases to unfold such as crown root rot, defoliation, bloom blight and fruit rot. Unfortunately, the most significant loss can be seen once the fruit is attacked. If the fruit is infected it will develop small brown spots (green fruit) or black spots (red fruit) and can expand throughout the fruits’ surface.	 almond Colletotrichum acutatum

Peach leaf curl is a distinctive and easily noticeable fungal disease, and the severity of the symptoms depends on how early infection has occurred. Diseased leaves can usually be identified soon after they emerge from the bud, due to their red color and twisted shape. As the leaves develop, they become increasingly distorted, and ultimately thick and rubbery compared to normal leaves. The color of the leaves changes from the normal green to red and purple, until a whitish bloom covers each leaf. Finally, the dead leaf may dry and turn black before it is cast off. Changes in the bark are less noticeable, if at all. Fruit may fail to develop from diseased blossoms. Any fruit that does develop from a diseased tree is usually normal, but sometimes may also be affected, showing a reddish color.  Infected leaves fall early. The tree usually produces a second flush of leaves that is rarely diseased, except in an unseasonably cool and wet spring, because the fungus is not infectious at the normally higher temperatures in late spring and early summer.	 almond Leaf curl

These nematodes cause symptoms both on leaves and roots. Foliar symptoms of root-knot disease may be expressed at any time during the growing season. These symptoms of nematode damage on peanut plants range from stunting, yellowing, wilting and even plant death.  Ferris (1999–2012), also reported that nematodes cause yellowing; mid-day wilting; symptoms of water and nutrient stress; and sometimes death, especially if the nematode is interacting with other organisms.  They can appear in a peanut crop beginning about 100 days after planting or after periods of dry hot weather.  Areas of root-knot nematode damaged peanut are usually round to oblong in shape, and rows of infected plants may never overlap as those of healthy plants. It is common for plants to wilt and eventually die in areas where nematode populations are high.Root symptoms are similar to those caused by all nematodes including a reduction in number of feeder roots and root stunting, but root knot nematodes cause unique symptoms on roots and pods. Nematodes cause galls (knots) to form on both roots and pods of the peanut, and these galls are highly diagnostic for root-knot nematode presence compared to other nematodes affecting peanut. The presence of galls on roots, pegs and pods appears as single or multiple wart-like growths that may or may not be discolored. As root knot nematode infection progresses, and generally later in the season, secondary root and pod rots cause further damage and eventual death of the plants.Many soil-borne fungi, especially Sclerotium rolfsii (which causes southern stem rot) and Sclerotinia minor (which causes Sclerotinia blight), will infect the weakened peanut plants and cause more plant death. Root knot nematode infection of the peg weakens the peg so that it breaks during harvest, contributing to additional yield losses because the detached pods are then left in the soil. Infection of the pods leads to a decline in yield quality.The damage threshold, or the initial nematode population density at which peanut yields begin to decline, has been reported to be in the range of 1 to 10 eggs and second stage juveniles per 500 cm3 soil for M. arenaria on susceptible peanut cultivars.	 almond Meloidogyne arenaria

Meloidogyne hapla (Northern root-knot nematode) has a wide host range. It is polyphagous and affects over 550 crops and weeds. It feeds on many agricultural and horticultural plants (vegetables, fruits, ornamentals), but few grasses or cereals. A list of known hosts can be found at the bottom of this page.Symptoms can be seen in the roots, leaves, and the overall growth of the infected plant. In roots, there may be stunting, wilting, and the formation of abnormal growths called galls. Galls are usually small and spherical and are situated near many small roots. They are formed when the nematode enters the root and releases chemicals to enlarge root cells, on which they feed. The roots become defective and therefore cannot transport water and nutrients properly. The end result is stunted, wilted, and yellowing plants (characteristic of nutrient deficiency) and a decreased yield. Severity of the symptoms depends on nematode population density and host plant species and cultivar. As the number of nematodes increase in the area, the number and size of root galls increase as well. Each crop responds to Meloidogyne hapla differently. Carrots typically undergo severe forking with galling of the roots, lettuce have beadlike galls, and grasses and onions have small and barely noticeable galls and symptoms. In potato tubers (special stems), brown spots will appear on areas of the tubers where the females have laid their eggs.If a field has a patchy distribution of symptoms, it usually indicates the presence of nematodes. Most nematodes are not usually distributed uniformly in the soil. To correctly identify Meloidogyne hapla, the infected plant should be sent to a lab for a proper diagnosis. One common method is perineal pattern analysis where the perineum of the female nematode (area between the anus and the vulva) is examined for a specific pattern in ridges and annulations. Another common method is analyzing isozyme (different variations of the same enzyme produced by different genes) electrophoretic profiles using esterase and malate dehydrogenase.	 almond Meloidogyne hapla

Plants affected by M. incognita present above ground symptoms of water- and nutrient-stress, yellowing, wilting, and stunting. Below ground galling on roots, bulbs, tubers is the typical symptom. Plant death may occur in high infestation level.	 almond Meloidogyne incognita

Because there are so many different hosts for this pathogen, the symptoms are very variable. Common symptoms include abnormal leaf color, abnormal leaf form, wilting leaves, galls, swollen roots, reduced root system, dwarfing and senescence (Cabi 2018). This pathogen does the most damage when present in light soils with hot weather conditions (Alford 2012).	 almond Meloidogyne javanica

It has a wide host range, infecting many woody plants, and it is known to infect all species of the genus Prunus, which includes peach, almond, apricot, cherry, and plum. It also infects various other fruit trees, and grapes, in particular. There have been studies that have shown large concentrations of ring nematodes in peppermint, as well.Symptoms can include, but are not limited to: root-pruning, decreased nutrient uptake, vascular damage, possible death of shoots and limbs, and stunted plant growth. With the reduced nutrient uptake, some cases have shown that the change in ratio if carbon:nitrogen can make plants infected by ring nematodes more susceptible to bacterial canker cause by Pseudomonas syringae, (Lownsberry, et al. 1977).	 almond Mesocriconema xenoplax

Brown rot causes blossom blight, twig blight; twig canker and fruit rot.  Brown rot is caused by a fungus that produces spores, and can be a major problem during particularly wet seasons.  Prolonged wet weather during bloom may result in extensive blossom infection.  The length of wet periods required for blossom infection depends upon the temperature.  Humid wet conditions are when the fruit trees are most at risk from infection.  Young green fruit can be infected just before autumn, but the infection often remains inactive until near maturity of the fruit.  Brown rot can spread after harvest. Mature fruit can decay in only 2 days under warm conditions.Blossom Blight: Infected blossoms wilt, shrivel and become covered with greyish mould.  Petals may appear light brown or water-soaked.  Blighted blossoms do not produce fruit.  Dead blossoms may stick to spurs and twigs until harvest, providing a source of spores for the fruit rot phase.Twig Blight and Canker: On peaches and apricots the infection may spread to twigs, causing brownish, oval cankers that may girdle and kill twigs.	 almond Monilinia fructicola

Phytophthora cactorum has an extremely wide host range, and can infect over 200 species or 160 genera of trees, ornamentals, and fruit crops. In general, P. cactorum is capable of infecting both young and old plants, and causes root rots and crown rots of the many genera it infects. Although the symptoms this pathogen produces varies between the types of organisms it infects, in general disease occurs during periods that are both wet and warm. Furthermore, most infections are caused by zoospores entering the plant through wounds.: 34 On older trees, P. cactorum causes the formation of sap exuding dark colored cankers on the trunks of trees, as well as leaf size and number reduction, chlorosis, and dieback of branches. The diagnosis of a P. cactorum infection of trees, is based on the identification of symptoms, in particular the oozing cankers, and confirmation of symptoms in a diagnosis lab or utilization of a field ELISA detection kit. P. cactorum can be a major problem in apple orchards, as it can cause crown, collar, and root rots in apple trees. When infecting apple trees, the organism can attack through wounds either above or below the soil line, impairing phloem and root function, and causing stunting, foliar disorders, and death after several years. Furthermore, because the pathogen causes damage to the phloem of the tree, one diagnostic method is to check for necrotic phloem tissue at the base of the tree which will be orange to red-brown in the early stages and dark brown in the later stages of infection.A good example of P. cactorum causing foliar disease is on ginseng. Foliar disease of ginseng usually occurs during May and early June, causing the leaves to become transparent and papery. Ginseng foliar infection occurs through the rain splash dispersal of spores from the soil onto above ground wounds. Once infected, P. cactorum works its way down to the roots, rotting them and killing the plant.P. cactorum is also one of the causal agents of black rot on orchids. When infecting orchids, this organism first produces small black lesions on the pseudobulbs of the orchid, which then enlarge and may engulf the entire pseudobulb, leaf, or move through the rhizomes to other portions of the plant prior to killing it. Diagnosis of orchid black rot by P. cactorum is through the identification of lemon-shaped zoosporangia with either a papilla or a short pedicel, the presence of oospores, or molecular identification. Since there are multiple species of Phytophthora that are capable of causing disease on orchids, classification only to the genus level is required for proper prescription of disease management techniques.Crown rot or root rot of strawberries is a common example of diseases of fruit crops caused by P. cactorum. On strawberries, P. cactorum infects the roots and the base of the plant causing stunting and reduced leaf size, with possible complete plant collapse later in the season. Similarly to apple trees, crown rots of strawberries caused by P. cactorum can be partially diagnosed by cutting the crown of the plant and observing brown vascular tissues, and root rots by brown or black stunted roots.Leather rot of strawberry is an additional disease affecting strawberry plants, with P. cactorum being the causal agent. Symptoms of this disease include brown patches or green patches with a brown border in immature fruit, with infected mature fruit displaying a purple to brown color, and becoming hard, leathery, or even mummified. Signs include visible mycelium inside of hollow infected berries, as well as mycelium on the surface of berries.  Infected fruit often has an unpleasant taste and odor, which is diagnostic. 	 almond Phytophthora cactorum

The host range for Phytophythora cinnamomi is very broad. It is distributed worldwide and causes disease on hundreds of hosts. The disease affects a range of economic groups, including food crops such as avocado and pineapple as well as trees and woody ornamentals such as Fraser firs, shortleaf pines, loblolly pines, azaleas, camellia, boxwood, causing root rot and dieback. It is a root pathogen that causes root rot and death of host plants. Some symptoms include: wilting, decreased fruit size, decrease in yield, collar rot, gum exudation, necrosis, leaf chlorosis, leaf curl, and stem cankers. Another symptom is that it can cause dieback of young shoots and may interfere with transpiration of roots to shoots. Older plants may not exhibit symptoms or may display only mild dieback despite having severe root rot.	 almond Phytophthora cinnamomi

This species is reported to be pathogenic on grandiflora petunia (Petunia × atkinsiana). It causes root rot, shoot rot and shanking in tulips. It also infects blue daze (Evolvulus glomeratus), dusty miller (Jacobaea maritima), Barberton daisy (Gerbera jamesonii), and garden verbena (Verbena × hybrida). Like its relative Phytophtora cambivora, it can cause ink disease of chestnuts (Castanea sativa).The species is a cause of foot rot in tomatoes, causing discoloration and lesion in the stem. Progression of lesions leads to girdling, root system rot and plant collapse. Foliage will not be affected until plant stem has become girdled.	 almond Phytophthora cryptogea

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 almond Phytophthora nicotianae var. parasitica

Root lesion nematode has a wide host range, including hosts like apple, cherry, conifers, roses, tomato, potato, corn, onion and sugarbeets, and ornamentals such as Narcissus. More than 164 hosts for P. penetrans have been recorded.  In the host range there are some hosts that are susceptible, such as wheat, oat, field pea, faba bean, and chickpea, and some that are moderately susceptible, such as barley and canola.Some general symptoms that are produced on infected plants include poor growth, fruit spot, and chlorotic foliage.  These secondary symptoms are often due to plant root stress.  These make it rather difficult to diagnose nematode diseases in general.  The roots when infected produce necrotic lesions, which are darkened areas of dead tissue, on the surface and throughout the cortex of the infected roots.  These lesions turn the root to reddish-brown to black and are initially spotty.  As the nematode continues to feed, the lesions can coalesce to become large necrotic areas of tissue that may eventually girdle the root. The population size of the nematode affects the degree of symptoms.  Low to moderate populations may cause no visible above ground symptoms, while high populations can lead to stunting, nutrient and water deficiencies, and eventual die-back of the plant.  On potato, infection of root lesion nematode can cause a secondary invasion by Verticillium dahliae leading to Potato Early Dying.  Onions are another important host of P. penetrans.  Onions are an important vegetable for consumption in the United States and upon infection the nematodes can limit yield and quality of the bulbs.  Populations of more than 0.01 nematode per cubic centimeter of soil resulted in injury to onions.  There is a negative relationship between the increasing inoculum levels on onion root and top fresh weight at harvest.	 almond Pratylenchus penetrans

All cultivated species of the genus Prunus, which includes plums, cherries, apricots, almonds, and peaches, are susceptible to one or more strains of PNRSV. Hops and rose are also susceptible to infection by the virus. Other susceptible hosts used for diagnosis include Chenopodium quinoa Willd., sunflower (Helianthus annus), and Momordica balsamina.Symptoms on orchard trees can include death of buds and roots, reduced tree survival and uniformity, and increased susceptibility to winter injury. Some common symptoms also include necrotic “shot holes” in leaves or rugosity and mosaic symptoms. In sweet cherries, PNRSV causes reduced leaf size and produces diffused chlorotic rings and/or spots. Generally, symptoms of PNRSV appear in the year following infection, and then becomes symptomless, although some strains cause recurrent symptoms annually. Although adult trees can show recovery from initial symptoms, keeping young trees virus-free is important because the virus can cause long-lasting stunting compared to healthy trees.  It is important to note that symptom severity varies due to host cultivar and viral isolate.	 almond Prunus necrotic ringspot virus

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 almond Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

The fungal pathogen Wilsonomyces carpophilus affects members of the Prunus genera. Almond, apricot, nectarine, peach, prune and cherry trees can be affected. Both edible and ornamental varieties are vulnerable to infection. Almost all over-ground parts of the plants are affected including the fruits, buds and the stems, but the damage is most noticeable on the leaves. The symptoms begin with small (1/10-1/4”) reddish or purplish-brown spots with light green or yellow ring around them. As the disease progresses the damaged areas become slightly larger and then dry up and fall away, leaving BB-sized holes behind. As the fungus spreads, more leaf tissue is damaged until the leaf falls. Significant infections can reduce the amount of photosynthesis that can occur, weakening the plant, and decreasing fruit production. The infection on the fruits in turn begins as small purple spots that develop into gray to white lesions. Gummosis may occur (both on the fruits and the stems as well). These lesions leave toughened spots on the skin, and in some cases the fruit may be lost. Infected buds may appear darker than normal. Branches may develop concentric lesions when infected. These lesions may girdle a twig and kill it.	 almond Shot hole disease

A wide variety of rose species are susceptible to powdery mildew. In light of this it is more practical to discuss the rose varieties that are resistant as opposed to those that are susceptible. Two varieties that have been found to show resistance to rose powdery mildew are "Paul's Pink" rose variety and the "Magic" rose variety. Other research has shown that many chestnut rose (Rosa roxburghii) varieties are also resistant to powdery mildew. Rosa sterilis, Rosa kweichowensis, Rosa laevigata, Rosa lucidissima, and Rosa chinensis have all been shown to be resistant to powdery mildew. R. multiflora var. multiflora and R. multiflora var. cathayensis have all been shown to be susceptible to rose powdery mildew. Symptoms caused by the rose powdery mildew can be a dwarfing of the growth of the plant, or the twisting and deforming of leaves, but more noticeable is a sign of the disease, which is the white condia, the “powder” that appears on the plant surfaces, such as leaves, shoots, flowers, and buds. The fungus may grow on both new and old leaves, but is generally more concentrated on the underside of the leaf 	 almond Sphaerotheca pannosa

There are many strains of Verticillium dahliae which are categorized into vegetative compatibility groups (VCG). These groups comprise strains that are able to exchange genetic material via anastomosis. Each VCG affects a few or only one host and the virulence of the pathogen varies by host. While individual V. dahliae strains are relatively host specific, as a species it has a wide range.Verticillium dahliae has a very wide host range, affecting over 300 plant species. Some susceptible crops include Brussels sprouts, cabbage, eggplant, cucumbers, mint, pepper, potatoes, pumpkin, spinach, tomato, watermelon, honeydew, and cantaloupe. Of these, tomato, potato, and eggplant have resistant or tolerant varieties.Symptoms of this disease are seen throughout the plant. Leaves may have abnormal coloration, necrotic areas, wilt, and/or fall off the plant. The stem may have discolored vascular tissue, exhibit rosetting (shortened internodes of the plant caused by reduced growth, resulting in a rosette-like appearance), and/or be stunted. Early senescence and dieback may also occur.Microsclerotia can be seen under a lens as small black structures in the vasculature of living and dead plants. This feature can be used to distinguish V. dahliae from V. albo-atrum, the other verticillium wilt pathogen.	 almond Verticillium dahliae

The symptoms that plants exhibit in response to the pathogenicity of Xiphinema americanum are similar to those of other migratory ectoparasitic nematodes of roots. It is common to see poor growth and or stunting of the plant, yellowing or wilting of the foliage, and reduced root systems which can include root necrosis, lack of feeder or secondary roots, and occasional tufts of stubby rootlets.Young, shortleaved yellow pine trees with moderate swelling of roots with clusters of short, stubby branches were the first demonstration of X. americanum pathogenicity in 1955. X. americanum can also cause severe effects on foliage, sometimes causing chlorosis and complete defoliation as seen on Guatemalan coffee trees. The dagger nematode causes the devitalization of root tips and overall root death when they feed at the root tips and root sides of strawberry plants. Reddish-brown lesions that turn black and necrotic with time result at the sites of feeding, and result in reduced root systems and stunted tops.Xiphinema americanum is listed as a C-rated pest in California due to its wide host range of California crops. C-rated pests are widespread, and are of known economic or environmental detriment, according to The California Department of Food and Agriculture. Due to X. americanum's difficulty in maintaining high populations in frequently tilled soils (see Control), the dagger nematode is mainly an economic problem on biennial and perennial crops rather than annual crops (except for damage to emerging seedlings).	 almond Xiphinema americanum

Significant variation in symptoms is seen between diseases, though some symptoms are expressed across species. On a macroscopic scale, plants infected with a X. fastidiosa-related disease exhibit symptoms of water, zinc, and iron deficiencies, manifesting as leaf scorching and stunting in leaves turning them yellowish-brown, gummy substance around leaves, fruit reduction in size and quality, and overall plant height.  As the bacterium progressively colonizes xylem tissues, affected plants often block off their xylem tissue, which can limit the spread of this pathogen; blocking can occur in the form of polysaccharide-rich gels, tyloses, or both.  These plant defenses do not seem to hinder the movement of X. fastidiosa. Occlusion of vascular tissue, while a normal plant response to infection, makes symptoms significantly worse; as the bacterium itself also reduces vascular function, a 90% reduction of vascular hydraulic function was seen in susceptible Vitis vinifera.  This bacterium rarely completely blocks vascular tissue. There usually is a slight amount of vascular function that keeps the plant alive, but makes its fruit or branches die, making the specific plant economically nonproductive. This can cause a massive drop on supply of quality fruit. Smaller colonies usually occur throughout a high proportion of xylem vessels of a symptomatic plant.X. fastidiosa is a Gram-negative, xylem-limited illness that is spread by insects. It can damage a variety of broadleaved tree species that are commonly grown in the United States. X. Fastidiosa can be found in about 600 different plant species.Withering and desiccation of branchesLeaf chlorosisDwarfing or lack of growth of the plantDrooping appearance and shorter internodesShriveled fruits on infected plantsPremature fruit abscissiongum-like substance on leavehardening and size reduction of fruit	 almond Xylella fastidiosa

This virus was first characterized in cucumbers (Cucumis sativus) showing mosaic symptoms in 1934, hence the name Cucumber mosaic. Since then, it has been found to infect a great variety of other plants. These include other vegetables such as squash, melons, peppers, eggplants, tomatoes, beans, carrots, celery, lettuce, spinach, beets, many ornamentals and bedding plants, such as Narcissus, and various weeds. Its presence has been confirmed on every continent of the world, including Antarctica.Symptoms seen with this virus include leaf mosaic or mottling (Fig. 1), yellowing, ringspots, stunting, and leaf, flower and fruit distortion. CMV also induces a type of symptom on leaves known as the "shoestring" effect on many host species. This effect causes young leaves to appear narrow and the entire plant to be stunted.Specifically, CMV can cause cucumbers to turn pale and bumpy. The leaves of these plants turn mosaic and their rugosity is often changed, making leaves wrinkled and misshapen. Growth of these plants is usually also stunted and produces few flowers. Often, cucumber fruits are oddly shaped, appear gray, and tested bitter. These appearances lead to them being referred to as "white pickles".Tomato plants are usually stunted and have poorly shaped leaves, or "fernleaf", when infected by CMV. Also certain strains of CMV can cause partial or total crop loss. CMV in peppers causes slightly different symptoms than the previously mentioned. Pepper plants often have severe foliar damage, shown as mosaic and necrotic rings. Often the peppers themselves are misshapen and contain chlorotic rings and spots. In celery, CMV causes streaking and spotting and can be often confused with symptoms of the celery mosaic virus. Symptoms of CMV in lettuce, such as chlorosis, plant stunting and often do not properly head, can be very similar to those of lettuce mosaic virus.CMV has also been identified in a lesser extent to a number of plant species. It is found to be a minor virus infecting Allium crops. The virus infection causes extensive malformation on garlic plants, and mild malformation to severe necrotic streaks on onion leaves. The severe damages on garlic plants and difficulty of aphids transmission of garlic isolate, were possible causal for the rare CMV on garlic. Genetically, the two onion isolates from Turkey (CMV-14.3Po and CMV-15.5Po) are highly similar to others isolated from various plant species in Mediterranean, European, and East Asian countries. CMV was also detected on American beautyberry, an important wildlife and pollinator food source plant native to North America.In plant tissue this virus makes characteristic viral inclusion bodies which can be diagnostic. They are hexagonal in shape (Fig. 2) and stain both in a protein stain and a nucleic acid stain. The inclusions can also be rhomboidal, may appear hollow (Fig. 2) and can form larger aggregates. The inclusions are not uniformly distributed and can be found in epidermal (Fig. 2), mesophyll, and stomatal cells. These inclusions are made up of virus particles.			 anemone Cucumber mosaic virus

Symptoms appear as dirty white, circular, floury patches on either sides of the leaves.Under favourable environmental conditions, entire leaves, stems, floral parts and pods are affected.The whole leaf may be covered with powdery mass.If persistent, mild chlorosis or necrosis can also occur.	 anemone Erysiphe polygoni

INSV has a wide host range and can be found in over 300 plant species including weeds, fruits, vegetables and ornamental crops. Of these, the most severely affected include tomatoes, lettuce, pepper and peppermint as well as most all ornamentals. Symptoms of infection include a downward curling of the leaves, leaf tip dieback, stunting, necrosis of growing leaf tips, sunken ‘chicken pox-like’ spots on leaves (often with a surrounding halo), stem death and yellowing.  Since these symptoms are so generic, extreme caution must be taken when introducing new plants to your greenhouse. Infected plants can not be cured and not all hosts display visible symptoms Western Flower Thrips are extremely hard to remove from their host plants, as they often dig themselves deep into blossoms, buds and other areas hard to reach with insecticides. So, even if plants are sprayed regularly with insecticide, INSV and other insect vectored viruses can not always be ruled out when forming diagnosis.Temperature and host both play an important factor when discussing the symptoms which an INSV infected plant will display. When New Guinea Impatiens are cultivated in an environment varying between 75 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit the host plant will be highly symptomatic. However, when New Guinea Impatiens are grown in an environment just 10 degrees cooler it is unlikely for there to be any observable symptoms of disease.	 anemone Impatiens necrotic spot virus

Phytophthora cactorum has an extremely wide host range, and can infect over 200 species or 160 genera of trees, ornamentals, and fruit crops. In general, P. cactorum is capable of infecting both young and old plants, and causes root rots and crown rots of the many genera it infects. Although the symptoms this pathogen produces varies between the types of organisms it infects, in general disease occurs during periods that are both wet and warm. Furthermore, most infections are caused by zoospores entering the plant through wounds.: 34 On older trees, P. cactorum causes the formation of sap exuding dark colored cankers on the trunks of trees, as well as leaf size and number reduction, chlorosis, and dieback of branches. The diagnosis of a P. cactorum infection of trees, is based on the identification of symptoms, in particular the oozing cankers, and confirmation of symptoms in a diagnosis lab or utilization of a field ELISA detection kit. P. cactorum can be a major problem in apple orchards, as it can cause crown, collar, and root rots in apple trees. When infecting apple trees, the organism can attack through wounds either above or below the soil line, impairing phloem and root function, and causing stunting, foliar disorders, and death after several years. Furthermore, because the pathogen causes damage to the phloem of the tree, one diagnostic method is to check for necrotic phloem tissue at the base of the tree which will be orange to red-brown in the early stages and dark brown in the later stages of infection.A good example of P. cactorum causing foliar disease is on ginseng. Foliar disease of ginseng usually occurs during May and early June, causing the leaves to become transparent and papery. Ginseng foliar infection occurs through the rain splash dispersal of spores from the soil onto above ground wounds. Once infected, P. cactorum works its way down to the roots, rotting them and killing the plant.P. cactorum is also one of the causal agents of black rot on orchids. When infecting orchids, this organism first produces small black lesions on the pseudobulbs of the orchid, which then enlarge and may engulf the entire pseudobulb, leaf, or move through the rhizomes to other portions of the plant prior to killing it. Diagnosis of orchid black rot by P. cactorum is through the identification of lemon-shaped zoosporangia with either a papilla or a short pedicel, the presence of oospores, or molecular identification. Since there are multiple species of Phytophthora that are capable of causing disease on orchids, classification only to the genus level is required for proper prescription of disease management techniques.Crown rot or root rot of strawberries is a common example of diseases of fruit crops caused by P. cactorum. On strawberries, P. cactorum infects the roots and the base of the plant causing stunting and reduced leaf size, with possible complete plant collapse later in the season. Similarly to apple trees, crown rots of strawberries caused by P. cactorum can be partially diagnosed by cutting the crown of the plant and observing brown vascular tissues, and root rots by brown or black stunted roots.Leather rot of strawberry is an additional disease affecting strawberry plants, with P. cactorum being the causal agent. Symptoms of this disease include brown patches or green patches with a brown border in immature fruit, with infected mature fruit displaying a purple to brown color, and becoming hard, leathery, or even mummified. Signs include visible mycelium inside of hollow infected berries, as well as mycelium on the surface of berries.  Infected fruit often has an unpleasant taste and odor, which is diagnostic. 	 anemone Phytophthora cactorum

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 anemone Rhizoctonia solani

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 anemone Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

Tobacco necrosis virus (TNV) can thrive on a handful of viable hosts. These hosts include tobacco, zucchini, cucumbers, carrots, French bean, tomatoes, potatoes, and tulips. There are a variety of symptoms that are dependent on the host species. In infected plants, abnormal coloring or necrotic tissue in the leaves may occur and roots may have lesions. If bark is present on the plant, it may become discolored. Fruit or tubers can become covered with sunken and discolored spots and can be smaller overall. On a whole-plant scale, damping off or early dying may occur.	 anemone Tobacco necrosis virus

TSWV infects a variety of hosts, contributing to its global economic impact on crops. There are over a thousand different hosts for TSWV. The host range of TSWV includes agronomically important crops like tomatoes and tobacco. The symptoms of TSWV vary from host to host. There is also variability of symptoms within a single type of host due to the age of the plant, nutrition and the environment (especially temperature). Common symptoms include stunting, ringspots on fruit and necrosis of leaves. There are many different strains of TSWV, and differences in symptoms may also be attributed to the differences in the number of strains present.	 anemone Tomato spotted wilt virus

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 apple Alternaria alternata

Armillaria mellea typically infects hardwood trees and conifers but sometimes will infect non-woody monocots and a few herbaceous plants. There are few signs, and the ones that do exist are often hard to find. The most prominent sign is honey-colored mushrooms at the base of the infected plant. Additional signs include white, fan-shaped mycelia and black rhizomorphs with diameters between 1/32nd of an inch and 1/8th of an inch. These usually are not as noticeable because they occur beneath the bark and in the soil, respectively. The symptoms are much more numerous, including slower growth, dieback of branches, yellowing foliage, rotted wood at base and/or roots, external cankers, cracking bark, bleeding stem, leaf wilting, defoliation, and rapid death. Leaf wilting, defoliation, and dieback occur after the destruction of the cambium.	 apple Armillaria mellea

Armillaria species infect a wide variety of woody plants. In a survey of 250 permanent plots of trees in Albania, Armillaria tabescens affected multiple species of trees including fir species, where it invaded when the plant was stressed. Tsopelas et al. reported Armillaria tabescens to be more prevalent in areas where the trees were stressed due to limited moisture. In oak trees, it was slightly more damaging and could kill young trees. Armillaria tabescens was also recorded in poplar and eucalyptus plantations, and almond trees were found to be very susceptible to infection. The results of the study by Lushaj et al. showed that Armillaria tabescens was most frequently recorded on fruit and ornamental trees compared to the other species.Armillaria tabescens causes separation of the bark from the wood by the production of mycelial fans in the trunk, a common sign of Armillaria root rot. It also causes gummosis, patches of gummy material on the surface of plants, which occurs in response to an external stimulus which causes the plant to ooze sap. Other common symptoms are soft rot of cortex, dwarfing, dieback, wilting, and abnormal coloring of the leaves. Small trees are killed rapidly by Armillaria tabescens and the symptoms aren’t noticeable until the leaves wilt. However, on larger trees symptoms occur earlier and start as a thin crown with small leaves. A crown of a tree refers to any branches or foliage that are growing out from the trunk. Therefore, thinning of the crown would mean reduced branches and leaves. The trees eventually start yellowing and defoliating followed by fast wilting and dying of limbs. The fungus is a white rot so it breaks down lignin in the wood. The breaking down of the lignin leads to the trees becoming hollow.	 apple Armillaria tabescens

The affected fruit have dark spots, about ½ cm diameter, which occur on the skin or in the flesh or both. The cells in the spots are dead (necrotic), and turn brown-black.	 apple Bitter pit

Botryosphaeria ribis is an ascomycete plant pathogen that primarily affects woody hosts in a number of temperate and tropical regions. The susceptible hosts include a number of economically important plants such as apple, peach, almond, banana, and walnut trees, among others.  The disease is noted by cankers, leaf spots, and necrosis, as well as twig dieback. On healthy leaves, the necrosis begins apically at the margins, extending back along the midrib, occasionally reaching the base and causing complete blight of the leaf.  Twig dieback also starts apically and works towards the center of the plant.  It is characterized by a slow necrosis of the branch, leaving large, dead limbs on the upper portions of trees.  Under the microscope, it can be identified by its immersed, pyriform perithecia (pear-shaped, spore-containing structures), which have a brown exterior wall.  The ascospores within the perithecia are ellipsoid in shape, with a smooth exterior and granular cytoplasm.  The anamorph (asexual stage) of B. ribis is Fusicoccum ribis, and although less abundant, it is characterized by globose pycnidia containing smooth, hyaline macro- and microconidia.  These symptoms have the potential to significantly decrease yield or kill the host.	 apple Botryosphaeria berengeriana

Black rotBotryosphaeria obtusa enters the fruit through wounds. These can be made by insects, birds or growth cracks. At first a brown spot, near the calyx, appears on the fruit. The spot on the fruit then enlarges and black/brown rings appear on the fruit. The fruit holds its shape, however, unlike other fruit diseases. The fruit will then wither up and can remain on the tree for another year before falling off. During this time pycnidia appear on the surface of the rotted fruit.Frogeye leaf spotIn leaves the fungus begins by causing purple specks on infected leaves. These then enlarge to cause large spots on the leaf, developing a brown color. The spots appear to have rings of brown with a purple margin, thus giving it its frogeye appearance. The spots can then produce pycnidia which can separate this species of fungus from other possible leaf fungi.CankerOn twigs, branches and trunks B. obtusa can infect where there has been a winter injury or fire blight cankers. Slightly sunken reddish/brown spots appear on the infected areas of bark. These then enlarge to form cankers, which can then enlarge slightly more each year. The bark usually dies and can, after time, be pulled away from the tree. In older cankers the pycnidia appear on the bark.Black dead arm disease of grapevineBotryosphaeria obtusa is the pathogen of black dead arm disease of grapevine. It has been shown to be able to oxidise wood δ-resveratrol into delta-viniferin.	 apple Botryosphaeria obtusa

Leaves become studded with projections or enations between the lateral veins and all along the midrib.  As a result, the leaves become deformed and folded, looking very narrow.  The face of the leaf has a bumpy texture as a result of the enations on the underside.Initial infections begin at the lower branches and patches of the tree will show symptoms.  Lateral (tree-to-tree) infection is slow and fruit production is reduced.  Severe infection may result in the death of the tree.	 apple Cherry rasp leaf virus

Armillaria species infect a wide variety of woody plants. In a survey of 250 permanent plots of trees in Albania, Armillaria tabescens affected multiple species of trees including fir species, where it invaded when the plant was stressed. Tsopelas et al. reported Armillaria tabescens to be more prevalent in areas where the trees were stressed due to limited moisture. In oak trees, it was slightly more damaging and could kill young trees. Armillaria tabescens was also recorded in poplar and eucalyptus plantations, and almond trees were found to be very susceptible to infection. The results of the study by Lushaj et al. showed that Armillaria tabescens was most frequently recorded on fruit and ornamental trees compared to the other species.Armillaria tabescens causes separation of the bark from the wood by the production of mycelial fans in the trunk, a common sign of Armillaria root rot. It also causes gummosis, patches of gummy material on the surface of plants, which occurs in response to an external stimulus which causes the plant to ooze sap. Other common symptoms are soft rot of cortex, dwarfing, dieback, wilting, and abnormal coloring of the leaves. Small trees are killed rapidly by Armillaria tabescens and the symptoms aren’t noticeable until the leaves wilt. However, on larger trees symptoms occur earlier and start as a thin crown with small leaves. A crown of a tree refers to any branches or foliage that are growing out from the trunk. Therefore, thinning of the crown would mean reduced branches and leaves. The trees eventually start yellowing and defoliating followed by fast wilting and dying of limbs. The fungus is a white rot so it breaks down lignin in the wood. The breaking down of the lignin leads to the trees becoming hollow.	 apple Clitocybe tabescens

Colletotrichum acutatum has a broad host range, but is most important in strawberries. C.  acutatum on strawberries. The pathogen causes black spot of fruit, but can also be seen attacking the plant at its crowns, roots and leaves. After planting, stunting and yellowing as well as wilting may occur. General symptoms of the disease in other plants can also be seen on flowers, petioles, and roots.  Stems are also a prominent place to see symptoms. Lesions on the stem can appear dark colored, oval shaped, and possibly have immersed spots located on petioles and runners.  Once C.acutatum infects these parts of the plant, it can cause other diseases to unfold such as crown root rot, defoliation, bloom blight and fruit rot. Unfortunately, the most significant loss can be seen once the fruit is attacked. If the fruit is infected it will develop small brown spots (green fruit) or black spots (red fruit) and can expand throughout the fruits’ surface.	 apple Colletotrichum acutatum

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 apple Colletotrichum gloeosporioides

All brambles, especially black raspberries, are susceptible to cane blight. The causal agent for Cane Blight is the fungus Leptosphaeria coniothyrium.The infection spreads internally first, therefore outwardly noticeable symptoms typically do not appear quickly. Symptoms could be exposed by peeling back the xylem and looking at the internal plant tissue. Healthy tissue would appear green, whereas diseased tissue develop dark lesions and vascular streaking.By late summer or fall, well after the initial infection, dark red or purple lesions can appear near wounded sites. Sometimes, large cankers develop causing necrosis and death of the cane in the following year. In the spring buds may fail to break, lateral branches may appear wilted, or canes may die as the fruit begins to ripen. Canes can also break or appear brittle near infection sites.Signs of cane blight include small black raised specks, which are the sporocarps, or fruiting bodies called pycnidia and/or pseudothecia. In wet conditions, gray spore masses may appear and ooze from cankers on the cane or in dry conditions appear fuzzy and powdery.	 apple Coniothyrium fuckelii

All brambles, especially black raspberries, are susceptible to cane blight. The causal agent for Cane Blight is the fungus Leptosphaeria coniothyrium.The infection spreads internally first, therefore outwardly noticeable symptoms typically do not appear quickly. Symptoms could be exposed by peeling back the xylem and looking at the internal plant tissue. Healthy tissue would appear green, whereas diseased tissue develop dark lesions and vascular streaking.By late summer or fall, well after the initial infection, dark red or purple lesions can appear near wounded sites. Sometimes, large cankers develop causing necrosis and death of the cane in the following year. In the spring buds may fail to break, lateral branches may appear wilted, or canes may die as the fruit begins to ripen. Canes can also break or appear brittle near infection sites.Signs of cane blight include small black raised specks, which are the sporocarps, or fruiting bodies called pycnidia and/or pseudothecia. In wet conditions, gray spore masses may appear and ooze from cankers on the cane or in dry conditions appear fuzzy and powdery.	 apple Diapleella coniothyrium

Tissues affected by the symptoms of Erwinia amylovora include blossoms, fruits, shoots, and branches of apple (Pomoideae), pear, and many other rosaceous plants. All symptoms are above ground and are typically easy to recognize. Symptoms on blossoms include water soaking of the floral receptacle, ovary, and peduncles. This results in a dull, gray-green appearance 1–2 weeks after petal fall, and eventually tissues will shrivel and turn black. The base of the blossom and young fruit show similar symptoms as infection spreads. Opaque white- or amber-colored droplets of bacterial ooze can be seen on the infected tissue in high humidity. Shoots show similar symptoms but these develop much more rapidly. A “Shepherd's Crook” can occur when the tip of the shoot wilts, and diseased shoot leaves typically have blackening along the mid-vein and before they die. When numerous, diseased shoots give the tree a blighted appearance. Infection of blossoms and shoots can spread to larger tree limbs. Branches will darken and become water soaked, eventually cracks will develop in bark. Wood under the bark will become streaked with black discoloration. Immature fruit forms water-soaked lesions and later turns black. Bacterial ooze can be found on these lesions. Severe infections result in fruit turning entirely black and shrivelling.	 apple Erwinia amylovora

Tissues affected by the symptoms of Erwinia amylovora include blossoms, fruits, shoots, and branches of apple (Pomoideae), pear, and many other rosaceous plants. All symptoms are above ground and are typically easy to recognize. Symptoms on blossoms include water soaking of the floral receptacle, ovary, and peduncles. This results in a dull, gray-green appearance 1–2 weeks after petal fall, and eventually tissues will shrivel and turn black. The base of the blossom and young fruit show similar symptoms as infection spreads. Opaque white- or amber-colored droplets of bacterial ooze can be seen on the infected tissue in high humidity. Shoots show similar symptoms but these develop much more rapidly. A “Shepherd's Crook” can occur when the tip of the shoot wilts, and diseased shoot leaves typically have blackening along the mid-vein and before they die. When numerous, diseased shoots give the tree a blighted appearance. Infection of blossoms and shoots can spread to larger tree limbs. Branches will darken and become water soaked, eventually cracks will develop in bark. Wood under the bark will become streaked with black discoloration. Immature fruit forms water-soaked lesions and later turns black. Bacterial ooze can be found on these lesions. Severe infections result in fruit turning entirely black and shrivelling.	 apple Fire blight

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 apple Glomerella cingulata

Gymnosporangium globosum is a heteroecious rust fungus that requires two hosts to complete its life cycle. Its telial stage occurs on eastern red cedar, Rocky Mountain juniper, southern red cedar, and other common junipers while its aecial stage will be found on apple, crabapple, hawthorne, and occasionally on pear, quince, and serviceberry. The symptoms on the evergreens (telial stage) start with small galls that form on its twigs and small branches. After the galls grow to be ⅛ to ½ inch in diameter, circular indents (similar to those of a golf ball) will begin to appear on the twig side of the gall. Once spring arrives, a reddish-brown structure will begin to grow out of the indent eventually producing orange, jelly-like telial horns. These telial horns can reach up to 4 inches long and can be easily seen. The symptoms of the deciduous trees (aecial stage) begin with yellow spots that progress into orange-red as the season continues. Black dots (spermagonia) will then develop in the center of the lesion. Mature lesions will then produce small tubes (aecia). These lesions can be found on leaves, petioles, twigs, and fruit. The aecia are approximately ⅛ inch long.	 apple Gymnosporangium globosum

On the apple tree, the infections occur on leaves, fruit and young twigs.  The brightly colored spots produced on the leaves make it easy to identify.  Small, yellow-orange spots appear on the upper surfaces of the leaves, through April and June.  These spots gradually enlarge and turn orange or red and may show concentric rings of color.  Drops of orange liquid may be visible on the spots.  Later in the season, black dots appear on the orange spots on the upper leaf surface.  In late summer, tube-like structures develop on the undersurface of the apple leaf. Infected leaves sometimes drop prematurely, particularly during drought conditions or when the tree is under additional stress. Infections on fruit are usually near the blossom end and are somewhat similar to the leaf lesions.On the eastern red cedar host, the fungus produces reddish-brown galls from 1⁄4–1 inch (6.4–25.4 mm) in diameter. These galls  grow quickly, and by fall, may reach diameters of 3-5 cm.  This can lead to them being mistaken for cone structures by the uninitiated.  After reaching a diameter of about 1⁄2 inch (13 mm), the galls show many small circular depressions. In the center of each depression is a small, pimple-like structure.  In the spring these structures elongate into orange gelatinous protrusions or horns.  The spore-bearing horns swell during rainy periods in April and May. The wind carries the microscopic spores to infect apple leaves, fruit and young twigs on trees within a radius of several miles of the infected tree.On other species of juniper more common in landscaping and bonsai, the sizes of the infections are reduced.  Early in the infection, the galls are small bumps on the woody portions of the plant.  They maintain the orange gelatinous form after the first warm rains of spring but generally on a greatly reduced scale.	 apple Gymnosporangium juniperi-virginianae

The most indicative sign is the presence of dark fungal mats on the effected plant’s roots and stem near the soil line, and the presence of mycelium on the soil. H. longisporum is an opportunistic parasite of subterranean plant organs. Symptoms of infection include foliage chlorosis, premature abscission, wilting, and severe reduction of root mass. Infected soil may be identified by the conspicuous nature of the webbed mycelium, which transitions from white to dark violet over the growing season.It is not highly specialized and infects a wide range of hosts, among them including apple (Malus domestica), mulberry (Morus spp.), Grapes (Vitus spp.), Potato (Solanum tuberosum), Plum (Prunus spp.), Tea, beets, soy, and cotton. It is suspected to infect many more hosts and is not selective.	 apple Helicobasidium mompa

All brambles, especially black raspberries, are susceptible to cane blight. The causal agent for Cane Blight is the fungus Leptosphaeria coniothyrium.The infection spreads internally first, therefore outwardly noticeable symptoms typically do not appear quickly. Symptoms could be exposed by peeling back the xylem and looking at the internal plant tissue. Healthy tissue would appear green, whereas diseased tissue develop dark lesions and vascular streaking.By late summer or fall, well after the initial infection, dark red or purple lesions can appear near wounded sites. Sometimes, large cankers develop causing necrosis and death of the cane in the following year. In the spring buds may fail to break, lateral branches may appear wilted, or canes may die as the fruit begins to ripen. Canes can also break or appear brittle near infection sites.Signs of cane blight include small black raised specks, which are the sporocarps, or fruiting bodies called pycnidia and/or pseudothecia. In wet conditions, gray spore masses may appear and ooze from cankers on the cane or in dry conditions appear fuzzy and powdery.	 apple Leptosphaeria coniothyrium

When infection occurs during or shortly after pollination, asymptomatic growth of the pathogen allows the fruit to mature normally. However, as the fruit ripens, small circular brown spots begin developing and quickly rotting on the flesh's surface; given plenty of moisture, conidial pustules develop on the infected areas. On mature infected fruits, brown rot spreads quickly throughout the fruit as a brown decay of the flesh. In areas/climates with high relative humidity, conidial tufts appear at the surface of the fruit; when RH is low, the fruit simply desiccates. Fruit rot caused by the brown rot pathogen Monilinia fructigena is a notorious ailment found in Malus domestica—the apple tree—with the fungus occasionally spreading from the infected fruit to the branches, causing cankering. With apple infections, a varying symptom can occur within the fruits, causing what is commonly known as “black apple”. This symptom entails the color of the rot changing from brown to a deep shade of black. The apple skin remains shiny and unbroken, and shrinkage of the actual tissue does not occur until later in development, where it often rots quickly in storage. Fruit rot is commonly found on apples, pears, and plums, but is less often found within peaches, nectarines, or apricots.	 apple Monilia fructigena

Brown rot causes blossom blight, twig blight; twig canker and fruit rot.  Brown rot is caused by a fungus that produces spores, and can be a major problem during particularly wet seasons.  Prolonged wet weather during bloom may result in extensive blossom infection.  The length of wet periods required for blossom infection depends upon the temperature.  Humid wet conditions are when the fruit trees are most at risk from infection.  Young green fruit can be infected just before autumn, but the infection often remains inactive until near maturity of the fruit.  Brown rot can spread after harvest. Mature fruit can decay in only 2 days under warm conditions.Blossom Blight: Infected blossoms wilt, shrivel and become covered with greyish mould.  Petals may appear light brown or water-soaked.  Blighted blossoms do not produce fruit.  Dead blossoms may stick to spurs and twigs until harvest, providing a source of spores for the fruit rot phase.Twig Blight and Canker: On peaches and apricots the infection may spread to twigs, causing brownish, oval cankers that may girdle and kill twigs.	 apple Monilinia fructicola

When infection occurs during or shortly after pollination, asymptomatic growth of the pathogen allows the fruit to mature normally. However, as the fruit ripens, small circular brown spots begin developing and quickly rotting on the flesh's surface; given plenty of moisture, conidial pustules develop on the infected areas. On mature infected fruits, brown rot spreads quickly throughout the fruit as a brown decay of the flesh. In areas/climates with high relative humidity, conidial tufts appear at the surface of the fruit; when RH is low, the fruit simply desiccates. Fruit rot caused by the brown rot pathogen Monilinia fructigena is a notorious ailment found in Malus domestica—the apple tree—with the fungus occasionally spreading from the infected fruit to the branches, causing cankering. With apple infections, a varying symptom can occur within the fruits, causing what is commonly known as “black apple”. This symptom entails the color of the rot changing from brown to a deep shade of black. The apple skin remains shiny and unbroken, and shrinkage of the actual tissue does not occur until later in development, where it often rots quickly in storage. Fruit rot is commonly found on apples, pears, and plums, but is less often found within peaches, nectarines, or apricots.	 apple Monilinia fructigena

Nectria cinnabarina, also known as coral spot, is a weak pathogen of broadleaf trees. While beech is the main host, the parasite can also affect Sycamore, Horse Chestnut, and Hornbeam. This pathogen usually affects trees that have already been weakened as a result of stressful factors, such as drought or fungal infestation. Physical damage can also make the tree susceptible to the pathogen. The pathogen forms pink fungal blobs (indicative of its sexual stage) on the outside of dead wood which turn a reddish-brown color and become quite hard. The blobs are usually 1 to 4 mm in length. Other symptoms include small twigs and branches dying back and branch necrosis. The bark that is infected becomes weak and tends to snap off in windy weather. The pathogen thrives in dead wood and airborne spores infect living trees and shrubs through wounds. Since it is caused by a weak fungus, isolation of the pathogen from diseased tissue and an analysis for fungal properties, such as induced sporulation or microscopically seeing cross-walls in hyphae, can aid in diagnosis. Furthermore, many fungi studies in media involve the formation of concentric hyphal zonations or rings of sporulation as the colony develops. This zonation is usually attributed to environmental changes. The sporulation rhythm of N. cinnabarina is conveyed by concentric rings or spirals and is dependent on temperature.	 apple Nectria cinnabarina

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 apple Phymatotrichopsis omnivora

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 apple Phymatotrichum omnivorum

Black rotBotryosphaeria obtusa enters the fruit through wounds. These can be made by insects, birds or growth cracks. At first a brown spot, near the calyx, appears on the fruit. The spot on the fruit then enlarges and black/brown rings appear on the fruit. The fruit holds its shape, however, unlike other fruit diseases. The fruit will then wither up and can remain on the tree for another year before falling off. During this time pycnidia appear on the surface of the rotted fruit.Frogeye leaf spotIn leaves the fungus begins by causing purple specks on infected leaves. These then enlarge to cause large spots on the leaf, developing a brown color. The spots appear to have rings of brown with a purple margin, thus giving it its frogeye appearance. The spots can then produce pycnidia which can separate this species of fungus from other possible leaf fungi.CankerOn twigs, branches and trunks B. obtusa can infect where there has been a winter injury or fire blight cankers. Slightly sunken reddish/brown spots appear on the infected areas of bark. These then enlarge to form cankers, which can then enlarge slightly more each year. The bark usually dies and can, after time, be pulled away from the tree. In older cankers the pycnidia appear on the bark.Black dead arm disease of grapevineBotryosphaeria obtusa is the pathogen of black dead arm disease of grapevine. It has been shown to be able to oxidise wood δ-resveratrol into delta-viniferin.	 apple Physalospora malorum

Phytophthora cactorum has an extremely wide host range, and can infect over 200 species or 160 genera of trees, ornamentals, and fruit crops. In general, P. cactorum is capable of infecting both young and old plants, and causes root rots and crown rots of the many genera it infects. Although the symptoms this pathogen produces varies between the types of organisms it infects, in general disease occurs during periods that are both wet and warm. Furthermore, most infections are caused by zoospores entering the plant through wounds.: 34 On older trees, P. cactorum causes the formation of sap exuding dark colored cankers on the trunks of trees, as well as leaf size and number reduction, chlorosis, and dieback of branches. The diagnosis of a P. cactorum infection of trees, is based on the identification of symptoms, in particular the oozing cankers, and confirmation of symptoms in a diagnosis lab or utilization of a field ELISA detection kit. P. cactorum can be a major problem in apple orchards, as it can cause crown, collar, and root rots in apple trees. When infecting apple trees, the organism can attack through wounds either above or below the soil line, impairing phloem and root function, and causing stunting, foliar disorders, and death after several years. Furthermore, because the pathogen causes damage to the phloem of the tree, one diagnostic method is to check for necrotic phloem tissue at the base of the tree which will be orange to red-brown in the early stages and dark brown in the later stages of infection.A good example of P. cactorum causing foliar disease is on ginseng. Foliar disease of ginseng usually occurs during May and early June, causing the leaves to become transparent and papery. Ginseng foliar infection occurs through the rain splash dispersal of spores from the soil onto above ground wounds. Once infected, P. cactorum works its way down to the roots, rotting them and killing the plant.P. cactorum is also one of the causal agents of black rot on orchids. When infecting orchids, this organism first produces small black lesions on the pseudobulbs of the orchid, which then enlarge and may engulf the entire pseudobulb, leaf, or move through the rhizomes to other portions of the plant prior to killing it. Diagnosis of orchid black rot by P. cactorum is through the identification of lemon-shaped zoosporangia with either a papilla or a short pedicel, the presence of oospores, or molecular identification. Since there are multiple species of Phytophthora that are capable of causing disease on orchids, classification only to the genus level is required for proper prescription of disease management techniques.Crown rot or root rot of strawberries is a common example of diseases of fruit crops caused by P. cactorum. On strawberries, P. cactorum infects the roots and the base of the plant causing stunting and reduced leaf size, with possible complete plant collapse later in the season. Similarly to apple trees, crown rots of strawberries caused by P. cactorum can be partially diagnosed by cutting the crown of the plant and observing brown vascular tissues, and root rots by brown or black stunted roots.Leather rot of strawberry is an additional disease affecting strawberry plants, with P. cactorum being the causal agent. Symptoms of this disease include brown patches or green patches with a brown border in immature fruit, with infected mature fruit displaying a purple to brown color, and becoming hard, leathery, or even mummified. Signs include visible mycelium inside of hollow infected berries, as well as mycelium on the surface of berries.  Infected fruit often has an unpleasant taste and odor, which is diagnostic. 	 apple Phytophthora cactorum

This species is reported to be pathogenic on grandiflora petunia (Petunia × atkinsiana). It causes root rot, shoot rot and shanking in tulips. It also infects blue daze (Evolvulus glomeratus), dusty miller (Jacobaea maritima), Barberton daisy (Gerbera jamesonii), and garden verbena (Verbena × hybrida). Like its relative Phytophtora cambivora, it can cause ink disease of chestnuts (Castanea sativa).The species is a cause of foot rot in tomatoes, causing discoloration and lesion in the stem. Progression of lesions leads to girdling, root system rot and plant collapse. Foliage will not be affected until plant stem has become girdled.	 apple Phytophthora cryptogea

Powdery mildew, caused by the obligate biotrophic ascomycete Podosphaera leucotricha, is one of the major diseases of cultivated apple throughout the world. The primary host is apple, but other fruit like peaches and quince provide a host for Podosphaera leucotricha.  A list of host plants/species affected includes Cydonia oblonga (quince), Malus (apple), Prunus persica (peach), Prunus domestica (plum), Pyrus (pears), and Mespilus germanica (medlar). On apples, the fungus affects twigs, foliage, blossoms, and fruits of current season growth. Infected plants are characterized by reduced photosynthesis and transpiration, resulting suboptimal carbohydrate assimilation and reduced growth.Podosphaera leucotricha causes a range of symptoms. On stems, symptoms include wilting and discoloration. Wilting and leaf curling occur on leaves. Symptoms of the inflorescence include discoloration (non-graminous plants), dwarfing, stunting, and twisting. On fruit symptoms include net-like russeting and deformed fruit. Depending on the stage in the disease cycle, symptoms vary. The primary blossom mildew emerges at pink bud stage. Flowers are deformed with pale green or yellow petal and are covered in white mycelium and spores. The secondary mildew may have lesions that appear as chlorotic spots on the upper leaf surface. Symptoms of the secondary mildew also included distorted leaves and premature falling of leaves.	 apple Podosphaera leucotricha

Root lesion nematodes infect a great variety of hosts. Pratylenchus penetrans alone has over 350 host plants. They include agricultural crops such as soybeans, potatoes, corn, bananas, and wheat. The genus is found most often in corn. Signs of disease are similar in most plants and generally include necrotic lesions of the roots. The lesions can also be entrances for pathogenic bacteria and fungi, which produce secondary infections. Above ground the plant becomes stunted, chlorotic, and wilted, and it often dies. A crop field may be patchy as plants wither and die. Root lesion nematodes can cause significant yield losses.	 apple Pratylenchus

Root lesion nematode has a wide host range, including hosts like apple, cherry, conifers, roses, tomato, potato, corn, onion and sugarbeets, and ornamentals such as Narcissus. More than 164 hosts for P. penetrans have been recorded.  In the host range there are some hosts that are susceptible, such as wheat, oat, field pea, faba bean, and chickpea, and some that are moderately susceptible, such as barley and canola.Some general symptoms that are produced on infected plants include poor growth, fruit spot, and chlorotic foliage.  These secondary symptoms are often due to plant root stress.  These make it rather difficult to diagnose nematode diseases in general.  The roots when infected produce necrotic lesions, which are darkened areas of dead tissue, on the surface and throughout the cortex of the infected roots.  These lesions turn the root to reddish-brown to black and are initially spotty.  As the nematode continues to feed, the lesions can coalesce to become large necrotic areas of tissue that may eventually girdle the root. The population size of the nematode affects the degree of symptoms.  Low to moderate populations may cause no visible above ground symptoms, while high populations can lead to stunting, nutrient and water deficiencies, and eventual die-back of the plant.  On potato, infection of root lesion nematode can cause a secondary invasion by Verticillium dahliae leading to Potato Early Dying.  Onions are another important host of P. penetrans.  Onions are an important vegetable for consumption in the United States and upon infection the nematodes can limit yield and quality of the bulbs.  Populations of more than 0.01 nematode per cubic centimeter of soil resulted in injury to onions.  There is a negative relationship between the increasing inoculum levels on onion root and top fresh weight at harvest.	 apple Pratylenchus penetrans

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 apple Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

Nectria cinnabarina, also known as coral spot, is a weak pathogen of broadleaf trees. While beech is the main host, the parasite can also affect Sycamore, Horse Chestnut, and Hornbeam. This pathogen usually affects trees that have already been weakened as a result of stressful factors, such as drought or fungal infestation. Physical damage can also make the tree susceptible to the pathogen. The pathogen forms pink fungal blobs (indicative of its sexual stage) on the outside of dead wood which turn a reddish-brown color and become quite hard. The blobs are usually 1 to 4 mm in length. Other symptoms include small twigs and branches dying back and branch necrosis. The bark that is infected becomes weak and tends to snap off in windy weather. The pathogen thrives in dead wood and airborne spores infect living trees and shrubs through wounds. Since it is caused by a weak fungus, isolation of the pathogen from diseased tissue and an analysis for fungal properties, such as induced sporulation or microscopically seeing cross-walls in hyphae, can aid in diagnosis. Furthermore, many fungi studies in media involve the formation of concentric hyphal zonations or rings of sporulation as the colony develops. This zonation is usually attributed to environmental changes. The sporulation rhythm of N. cinnabarina is conveyed by concentric rings or spirals and is dependent on temperature.	 apple Tubercularia vulgaris

The Venturia inaequalis pathogen is a fungal organism that produces similar symptoms across a range of woody hosts. These include the common pear (Pyrus spp.), firethorn (Pyracantha spp.), mountain ash (Sorbus spp.), and most notably both commercial apples along with ornamental crabapples (Malus spp.). Symptoms of the infection occur on leaves, fruit, flowers, and young green shoots. Foliar symptoms begin to occur in the early spring around budbreak and mainly present as light green lesions that progress to an olive-brown color with a velvety texture due to conidia formation as time passes. These large scab-like lesions can warp the leaf's shape and can eventually lead to defoliation. Lesions formed by primary infection via ascospores tend to have more distinct borders when compared to lesions as a result of a secondary infection cycle via conidia. Young fruit, often infected by foliar conidia, can also display similar symptoms to infected leaves. In this case the lesions progress to bare, brown and corky spots. The apple skin and flesh can split open as the fruit enlarges, though young fruits often prematurely drop. Mature fruits are more resistant to infection and only form small, black ‘pin-head scabs’ which might not even be noticeable until after storage.	 apple Venturia inaequalis

The symptoms that plants exhibit in response to the pathogenicity of Xiphinema americanum are similar to those of other migratory ectoparasitic nematodes of roots. It is common to see poor growth and or stunting of the plant, yellowing or wilting of the foliage, and reduced root systems which can include root necrosis, lack of feeder or secondary roots, and occasional tufts of stubby rootlets.Young, shortleaved yellow pine trees with moderate swelling of roots with clusters of short, stubby branches were the first demonstration of X. americanum pathogenicity in 1955. X. americanum can also cause severe effects on foliage, sometimes causing chlorosis and complete defoliation as seen on Guatemalan coffee trees. The dagger nematode causes the devitalization of root tips and overall root death when they feed at the root tips and root sides of strawberry plants. Reddish-brown lesions that turn black and necrotic with time result at the sites of feeding, and result in reduced root systems and stunted tops.Xiphinema americanum is listed as a C-rated pest in California due to its wide host range of California crops. C-rated pests are widespread, and are of known economic or environmental detriment, according to The California Department of Food and Agriculture. Due to X. americanum's difficulty in maintaining high populations in frequently tilled soils (see Control), the dagger nematode is mainly an economic problem on biennial and perennial crops rather than annual crops (except for damage to emerging seedlings).	 apple Xiphinema americanum

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 apricot Alternaria alternata

Armillaria mellea typically infects hardwood trees and conifers but sometimes will infect non-woody monocots and a few herbaceous plants. There are few signs, and the ones that do exist are often hard to find. The most prominent sign is honey-colored mushrooms at the base of the infected plant. Additional signs include white, fan-shaped mycelia and black rhizomorphs with diameters between 1/32nd of an inch and 1/8th of an inch. These usually are not as noticeable because they occur beneath the bark and in the soil, respectively. The symptoms are much more numerous, including slower growth, dieback of branches, yellowing foliage, rotted wood at base and/or roots, external cankers, cracking bark, bleeding stem, leaf wilting, defoliation, and rapid death. Leaf wilting, defoliation, and dieback occur after the destruction of the cambium.	 apricot Armillaria mellea

Ceratocystis fimbriata is an ascomycete fungal pathogen. The species as a whole can infect a wide variety of hosts, but particular strains are host-specific. One example is the Ipomoea form of the fungus, which is specific to sweet potato (Ipomea batatas) and wild morning glory. Symptoms can be found on the fleshy root or visible in plants. On sweet potato, Ceratocystis fimbriata causes a disease called 'black rot,' which displays firm and dry circular brown/black rots. Infected plants often show stunted growth, wilting, and yellowing. Wilting occurs because this pathogen can also travel through xylem and infect vascular system. During disease, white, fuzzy mycelia with long black perithecia grow out from the lesions. Additionally, research demonstrates that sweet potatoes infected with C. fimbriata demonstrate increased respiration which is partially due to the infection's influence on protein metabolism. Higher respiration rates cause dry weight loss in the tubers which poses a problem for marketability.	 apricot Ceratocystis fimbriata

Cherry mottle leaf virus (CMLV) has a wide range of hosts. It infects the genus Prunus including cherry (Prunus avium) and peach (P. persica) trees. More specifically, CMLV infects both sweet and bitter/wild type (P. emarginata) cherry trees. The most common propagation host is the Chenopodium quinoa  and the most common infected trees in the field are Bing and Napoleon trees. CMLV can be transmitted by budding and grafting with infected budwood from infected bitter cherry trees or symptomless peach trees. It is important to note that not all diseased hosts show symptoms which can make diagnoses challenging. When symptoms are observed, they are mostly found on the leaves themselves. Leaves can be mottled with yellow and green chlorotic patterns between the veins. Other leaf symptoms include leaf distortion, and puckering of the younger leaves. The fruit that are produced can be small, flavorless and ripen later in the season. In general, affected trees may appear stunted.	 apricot Cherry mottle leaf virus

It has a wide host range, infecting many woody plants, and it is known to infect all species of the genus Prunus, which includes peach, almond, apricot, cherry, and plum. It also infects various other fruit trees, and grapes, in particular. There have been studies that have shown large concentrations of ring nematodes in peppermint, as well.Symptoms can include, but are not limited to: root-pruning, decreased nutrient uptake, vascular damage, possible death of shoots and limbs, and stunted plant growth. With the reduced nutrient uptake, some cases have shown that the change in ratio if carbon:nitrogen can make plants infected by ring nematodes more susceptible to bacterial canker cause by Pseudomonas syringae, (Lownsberry, et al. 1977).	 apricot Criconemella xenoplax

The virus affects the young leaves with green and light green spots, even yellow-green spots. These spots have a slower development rate than the rest of the leaf. Sometimes the veins remain green. In heavy infection young leaves are even deformed. The activity of the virus is reduced when the leaf ages. Fruit drop (abortion) is common. The rest of the fruits are small. Yield is reduced by 25% even more if no control action are taken into account. In the epidermis of the sick plants characteristic structures can be seen easily with a microscope.Virus ID:Tobamovirus group.Temperature inactivation in juice 90 °CTransition:seed 8–10% from the beginning which is enough to star the silent infection. Aphids and other sucking insects do not transmit the virus. In hydroponic the virus could spread out to up to 80% of the crop because the roots are touching.	 apricot Cucumber green mottle mosaic virus

Phomopsis cane and leaf spot is a disease that causes symptoms in the common grapevine species, Vitis vinifera, in many regions of the world. This disease is mainly caused by the fungal pathogen, Phomopsis viticola, and is known to affect many cultivars of table grapes, such as Thompson Seedless, Red Globe, and Flame Seedless. Also in vines of oenological interest, such as Cabernet Sauvignon, Zinfandel, Syrah, Barbera, Chardonnay and Merlot. Spots or lesions on shoots and leaves are common symptoms of the disease. Small, black spots on the internodes at the base of developing shoots are probably the most common disease symptom. These spots are usually found on the first three to four basal internodes. The spots may develop into elliptical lesions that may grow together to form irregular, black, crusty areas. Under severe conditions, shoots may split and form longitudinal cracks. Although cane lesions often appear to result in little damage to the vines, it is important to remember that these lesions are the primary source of overwintering inoculum for the next growing season. Leaf infections first appear as small, light-green spots with irregular, occasionally star-shaped margins. Usually only the lower one to four leaves on a shoot are affected. In time, the spots become larger, turn black, and have a yellow margin . Leaves become distorted and die if large numbers of lesions develop. Infections of leaf petioles may cause leaves to turn yellow and fall off. All parts of the grape cluster (berries and rachises or cluster stems) are susceptible to infection throughout the growing season; however, most infections appear to occur early in the growing season. Lesions developing on the first one or two cluster stems (rachises) on a shoot may result in premature withering of the cluster stem. Infected clusters that survive until harvest often produce infected or poor-quality fruit. Soil moisture and temperature can impact the severity of symptoms, leading to a systemic infection in warm and wet conditions.	 apricot Eutypa lata

Symptoms and signs of fungus disease are often found underground. The H. annosum infections cause an abnormal change in structure in the roots that climbs up to the butt of the tree. More than half the tree may be killed before any symptoms appear to the human eye. Basidiocarps can take up to one and a half or even three years to be visible. This infections causes the trees to have abnormal needle growth, pale yellow barks, and the trees to wither and die. This root disease typically causes the tree to have a thin crown from bottom up and inside out. Trees will eventually die. A landscape scale symptom is the rings of dead trees in various stages of decay and death, with the oldest at the center and progressively younger moving outward. The white rot fungus found in the roots is the sign of telling whether the tree has been affected by H. annosum. The bark changes colors as the stages progress, they go from pale yellow, to a crusty light brown, and finally in its advanced stage it turns white with the signature of Fomes annosus―a sprinkled streak of black spots. Another sign is the leaking part of the root that causes a compact mass to form between it and the sand.	 apricot Heterobasidion annosum

These nematodes cause symptoms both on leaves and roots. Foliar symptoms of root-knot disease may be expressed at any time during the growing season. These symptoms of nematode damage on peanut plants range from stunting, yellowing, wilting and even plant death.  Ferris (1999–2012), also reported that nematodes cause yellowing; mid-day wilting; symptoms of water and nutrient stress; and sometimes death, especially if the nematode is interacting with other organisms.  They can appear in a peanut crop beginning about 100 days after planting or after periods of dry hot weather.  Areas of root-knot nematode damaged peanut are usually round to oblong in shape, and rows of infected plants may never overlap as those of healthy plants. It is common for plants to wilt and eventually die in areas where nematode populations are high.Root symptoms are similar to those caused by all nematodes including a reduction in number of feeder roots and root stunting, but root knot nematodes cause unique symptoms on roots and pods. Nematodes cause galls (knots) to form on both roots and pods of the peanut, and these galls are highly diagnostic for root-knot nematode presence compared to other nematodes affecting peanut. The presence of galls on roots, pegs and pods appears as single or multiple wart-like growths that may or may not be discolored. As root knot nematode infection progresses, and generally later in the season, secondary root and pod rots cause further damage and eventual death of the plants.Many soil-borne fungi, especially Sclerotium rolfsii (which causes southern stem rot) and Sclerotinia minor (which causes Sclerotinia blight), will infect the weakened peanut plants and cause more plant death. Root knot nematode infection of the peg weakens the peg so that it breaks during harvest, contributing to additional yield losses because the detached pods are then left in the soil. Infection of the pods leads to a decline in yield quality.The damage threshold, or the initial nematode population density at which peanut yields begin to decline, has been reported to be in the range of 1 to 10 eggs and second stage juveniles per 500 cm3 soil for M. arenaria on susceptible peanut cultivars.	 apricot Meloidogyne arenaria

Plants affected by M. incognita present above ground symptoms of water- and nutrient-stress, yellowing, wilting, and stunting. Below ground galling on roots, bulbs, tubers is the typical symptom. Plant death may occur in high infestation level.	 apricot Meloidogyne incognita

Because there are so many different hosts for this pathogen, the symptoms are very variable. Common symptoms include abnormal leaf color, abnormal leaf form, wilting leaves, galls, swollen roots, reduced root system, dwarfing and senescence (Cabi 2018). This pathogen does the most damage when present in light soils with hot weather conditions (Alford 2012).	 apricot Meloidogyne javanica

Brown rot causes blossom blight, twig blight; twig canker and fruit rot.  Brown rot is caused by a fungus that produces spores, and can be a major problem during particularly wet seasons.  Prolonged wet weather during bloom may result in extensive blossom infection.  The length of wet periods required for blossom infection depends upon the temperature.  Humid wet conditions are when the fruit trees are most at risk from infection.  Young green fruit can be infected just before autumn, but the infection often remains inactive until near maturity of the fruit.  Brown rot can spread after harvest. Mature fruit can decay in only 2 days under warm conditions.Blossom Blight: Infected blossoms wilt, shrivel and become covered with greyish mould.  Petals may appear light brown or water-soaked.  Blighted blossoms do not produce fruit.  Dead blossoms may stick to spurs and twigs until harvest, providing a source of spores for the fruit rot phase.Twig Blight and Canker: On peaches and apricots the infection may spread to twigs, causing brownish, oval cankers that may girdle and kill twigs.	 apricot Monilinia fructicola

Phytophthora cactorum has an extremely wide host range, and can infect over 200 species or 160 genera of trees, ornamentals, and fruit crops. In general, P. cactorum is capable of infecting both young and old plants, and causes root rots and crown rots of the many genera it infects. Although the symptoms this pathogen produces varies between the types of organisms it infects, in general disease occurs during periods that are both wet and warm. Furthermore, most infections are caused by zoospores entering the plant through wounds.: 34 On older trees, P. cactorum causes the formation of sap exuding dark colored cankers on the trunks of trees, as well as leaf size and number reduction, chlorosis, and dieback of branches. The diagnosis of a P. cactorum infection of trees, is based on the identification of symptoms, in particular the oozing cankers, and confirmation of symptoms in a diagnosis lab or utilization of a field ELISA detection kit. P. cactorum can be a major problem in apple orchards, as it can cause crown, collar, and root rots in apple trees. When infecting apple trees, the organism can attack through wounds either above or below the soil line, impairing phloem and root function, and causing stunting, foliar disorders, and death after several years. Furthermore, because the pathogen causes damage to the phloem of the tree, one diagnostic method is to check for necrotic phloem tissue at the base of the tree which will be orange to red-brown in the early stages and dark brown in the later stages of infection.A good example of P. cactorum causing foliar disease is on ginseng. Foliar disease of ginseng usually occurs during May and early June, causing the leaves to become transparent and papery. Ginseng foliar infection occurs through the rain splash dispersal of spores from the soil onto above ground wounds. Once infected, P. cactorum works its way down to the roots, rotting them and killing the plant.P. cactorum is also one of the causal agents of black rot on orchids. When infecting orchids, this organism first produces small black lesions on the pseudobulbs of the orchid, which then enlarge and may engulf the entire pseudobulb, leaf, or move through the rhizomes to other portions of the plant prior to killing it. Diagnosis of orchid black rot by P. cactorum is through the identification of lemon-shaped zoosporangia with either a papilla or a short pedicel, the presence of oospores, or molecular identification. Since there are multiple species of Phytophthora that are capable of causing disease on orchids, classification only to the genus level is required for proper prescription of disease management techniques.Crown rot or root rot of strawberries is a common example of diseases of fruit crops caused by P. cactorum. On strawberries, P. cactorum infects the roots and the base of the plant causing stunting and reduced leaf size, with possible complete plant collapse later in the season. Similarly to apple trees, crown rots of strawberries caused by P. cactorum can be partially diagnosed by cutting the crown of the plant and observing brown vascular tissues, and root rots by brown or black stunted roots.Leather rot of strawberry is an additional disease affecting strawberry plants, with P. cactorum being the causal agent. Symptoms of this disease include brown patches or green patches with a brown border in immature fruit, with infected mature fruit displaying a purple to brown color, and becoming hard, leathery, or even mummified. Signs include visible mycelium inside of hollow infected berries, as well as mycelium on the surface of berries.  Infected fruit often has an unpleasant taste and odor, which is diagnostic. 	 apricot Phytophthora cactorum

The host range for Phytophythora cinnamomi is very broad. It is distributed worldwide and causes disease on hundreds of hosts. The disease affects a range of economic groups, including food crops such as avocado and pineapple as well as trees and woody ornamentals such as Fraser firs, shortleaf pines, loblolly pines, azaleas, camellia, boxwood, causing root rot and dieback. It is a root pathogen that causes root rot and death of host plants. Some symptoms include: wilting, decreased fruit size, decrease in yield, collar rot, gum exudation, necrosis, leaf chlorosis, leaf curl, and stem cankers. Another symptom is that it can cause dieback of young shoots and may interfere with transpiration of roots to shoots. Older plants may not exhibit symptoms or may display only mild dieback despite having severe root rot.	 apricot Phytophthora cinnamomi

All cultivated species of the genus Prunus, which includes plums, cherries, apricots, almonds, and peaches, are susceptible to one or more strains of PNRSV. Hops and rose are also susceptible to infection by the virus. Other susceptible hosts used for diagnosis include Chenopodium quinoa Willd., sunflower (Helianthus annus), and Momordica balsamina.Symptoms on orchard trees can include death of buds and roots, reduced tree survival and uniformity, and increased susceptibility to winter injury. Some common symptoms also include necrotic “shot holes” in leaves or rugosity and mosaic symptoms. In sweet cherries, PNRSV causes reduced leaf size and produces diffused chlorotic rings and/or spots. Generally, symptoms of PNRSV appear in the year following infection, and then becomes symptomless, although some strains cause recurrent symptoms annually. Although adult trees can show recovery from initial symptoms, keeping young trees virus-free is important because the virus can cause long-lasting stunting compared to healthy trees.  It is important to note that symptom severity varies due to host cultivar and viral isolate.	 apricot Prunus necrotic ringspot virus

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 apricot Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

A wide variety of rose species are susceptible to powdery mildew. In light of this it is more practical to discuss the rose varieties that are resistant as opposed to those that are susceptible. Two varieties that have been found to show resistance to rose powdery mildew are "Paul's Pink" rose variety and the "Magic" rose variety. Other research has shown that many chestnut rose (Rosa roxburghii) varieties are also resistant to powdery mildew. Rosa sterilis, Rosa kweichowensis, Rosa laevigata, Rosa lucidissima, and Rosa chinensis have all been shown to be resistant to powdery mildew. R. multiflora var. multiflora and R. multiflora var. cathayensis have all been shown to be susceptible to rose powdery mildew. Symptoms caused by the rose powdery mildew can be a dwarfing of the growth of the plant, or the twisting and deforming of leaves, but more noticeable is a sign of the disease, which is the white condia, the “powder” that appears on the plant surfaces, such as leaves, shoots, flowers, and buds. The fungus may grow on both new and old leaves, but is generally more concentrated on the underside of the leaf 	 apricot Sphaerotheca pannosa

Leaves become patchy and reddish in color. There are decreased yields.	 apricot Strawberry latent ringspot virus

There are many strains of Verticillium dahliae which are categorized into vegetative compatibility groups (VCG). These groups comprise strains that are able to exchange genetic material via anastomosis. Each VCG affects a few or only one host and the virulence of the pathogen varies by host. While individual V. dahliae strains are relatively host specific, as a species it has a wide range.Verticillium dahliae has a very wide host range, affecting over 300 plant species. Some susceptible crops include Brussels sprouts, cabbage, eggplant, cucumbers, mint, pepper, potatoes, pumpkin, spinach, tomato, watermelon, honeydew, and cantaloupe. Of these, tomato, potato, and eggplant have resistant or tolerant varieties.Symptoms of this disease are seen throughout the plant. Leaves may have abnormal coloration, necrotic areas, wilt, and/or fall off the plant. The stem may have discolored vascular tissue, exhibit rosetting (shortened internodes of the plant caused by reduced growth, resulting in a rosette-like appearance), and/or be stunted. Early senescence and dieback may also occur.Microsclerotia can be seen under a lens as small black structures in the vasculature of living and dead plants. This feature can be used to distinguish V. dahliae from V. albo-atrum, the other verticillium wilt pathogen.	 apricot Verticillium dahliae

The symptoms that plants exhibit in response to the pathogenicity of Xiphinema americanum are similar to those of other migratory ectoparasitic nematodes of roots. It is common to see poor growth and or stunting of the plant, yellowing or wilting of the foliage, and reduced root systems which can include root necrosis, lack of feeder or secondary roots, and occasional tufts of stubby rootlets.Young, shortleaved yellow pine trees with moderate swelling of roots with clusters of short, stubby branches were the first demonstration of X. americanum pathogenicity in 1955. X. americanum can also cause severe effects on foliage, sometimes causing chlorosis and complete defoliation as seen on Guatemalan coffee trees. The dagger nematode causes the devitalization of root tips and overall root death when they feed at the root tips and root sides of strawberry plants. Reddish-brown lesions that turn black and necrotic with time result at the sites of feeding, and result in reduced root systems and stunted tops.Xiphinema americanum is listed as a C-rated pest in California due to its wide host range of California crops. C-rated pests are widespread, and are of known economic or environmental detriment, according to The California Department of Food and Agriculture. Due to X. americanum's difficulty in maintaining high populations in frequently tilled soils (see Control), the dagger nematode is mainly an economic problem on biennial and perennial crops rather than annual crops (except for damage to emerging seedlings).	 apricot Xiphinema americanum

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 asparagus Alternaria alternata

Under the experimental conditions, susceptibility to being infected by the viruses is found in several families. Susceptible host species are found in the Alliaceae, Amaranthaceae, Asparagaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Tetragoniaceae. The following species were susceptible to experimental virus infection: Allium tuberosum, Asparagus officinalis, Chenopodium album, Chenopodium amaranticolor, Chenopodium capitatum, Chenopodium quinoa, Gomphrena globosa, Tetragonia tetragonioides. Experimentally infected hosts mainly show symptoms of necrotic local lesions.	 asparagus Asparagus 1 virus

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 asparagus Colletotrichum gloeosporioides

Gibberella fujikuroi is most widely known for its disease producing capabilities in rice, but barley, millet, sugarcane and maize are also susceptible. In all infected plants, similar symptoms have been found, though rice has been most predominantly studied. The most telltale symptom of Bakanae is the tall, spindly look of the plant. This is a result of the gibberellins, or growth hormones, the fungus secretes. Infected plants are easy to pick out, then, as they often rise above the rest of the healthy plants with regularly secreted growth hormones.  However, it is also possible that stunting may occur, along with Chlorosis of the leaves of the plant, root lesions, or empty grains of plants grown to maturity.	 asparagus Gibberella fujikuroi

Asparagus spears are usually harvested before severe rust symptoms appear. These symptoms include light green, oval lesions, followed by tan blister spots and black, projecting blisters later in the season and indicate the presence of aeciospores, urediospores, and teliospores, respectively. Serious rust infections stunt or kill young asparagus shoots, causing foliage to fall prematurely, and reduce the ability of the plant to store food reserves. The orange spores are the key sign for this disease because they are the easiest to spot. Examination of the plant for orange spots or laboratory techniques can sense the presence of this fungus.	 asparagus Puccinia asparagi

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 asparagus Rhizoctonia solani

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 asparagus Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

TSV has been reported worldwide in North and South America, Europe, India, Japan, Australia, New Zealand and South America. TSV has a wide host range including both monocots and dicots.  Economically important crop hosts include peanuts, sunflower, soybean, cranberry, cotton, chickpea and mung beans.  As with many plant viruses, diagnosis is very difficult because TSV has very wide host range and has different effects depending on the host being infected. Symptoms of TSV may include black streaks on stems and leaves, stunted growth, chlorosis, leaf mosaic, lodging, and deformed growing tips, to name a few. On tobacco plants, TSV causes chlorosis, with a unique pattern of white or dark necrotic leaf tissue close to the veins of the leaf.  As its name implies, necrotic streaks are found on leaf veins of infected plants.  Symptoms are strongly influenced by temperature.  For example, plants experiencing a temperature of 20° Celsius will develop small necrotic spots while at temperatures above 30° Celsius, necrotic spots will become large necrotic arcs. Symptoms are not sufficient to correctly identify TSV - serology and PCR techniques are required.	 asparagus Tobacco streak virus

Armillaria mellea typically infects hardwood trees and conifers but sometimes will infect non-woody monocots and a few herbaceous plants. There are few signs, and the ones that do exist are often hard to find. The most prominent sign is honey-colored mushrooms at the base of the infected plant. Additional signs include white, fan-shaped mycelia and black rhizomorphs with diameters between 1/32nd of an inch and 1/8th of an inch. These usually are not as noticeable because they occur beneath the bark and in the soil, respectively. The symptoms are much more numerous, including slower growth, dieback of branches, yellowing foliage, rotted wood at base and/or roots, external cankers, cracking bark, bleeding stem, leaf wilting, defoliation, and rapid death. Leaf wilting, defoliation, and dieback occur after the destruction of the cambium.	 avocado Armillaria mellea

Armillaria species infect a wide variety of woody plants. In a survey of 250 permanent plots of trees in Albania, Armillaria tabescens affected multiple species of trees including fir species, where it invaded when the plant was stressed. Tsopelas et al. reported Armillaria tabescens to be more prevalent in areas where the trees were stressed due to limited moisture. In oak trees, it was slightly more damaging and could kill young trees. Armillaria tabescens was also recorded in poplar and eucalyptus plantations, and almond trees were found to be very susceptible to infection. The results of the study by Lushaj et al. showed that Armillaria tabescens was most frequently recorded on fruit and ornamental trees compared to the other species.Armillaria tabescens causes separation of the bark from the wood by the production of mycelial fans in the trunk, a common sign of Armillaria root rot. It also causes gummosis, patches of gummy material on the surface of plants, which occurs in response to an external stimulus which causes the plant to ooze sap. Other common symptoms are soft rot of cortex, dwarfing, dieback, wilting, and abnormal coloring of the leaves. Small trees are killed rapidly by Armillaria tabescens and the symptoms aren’t noticeable until the leaves wilt. However, on larger trees symptoms occur earlier and start as a thin crown with small leaves. A crown of a tree refers to any branches or foliage that are growing out from the trunk. Therefore, thinning of the crown would mean reduced branches and leaves. The trees eventually start yellowing and defoliating followed by fast wilting and dying of limbs. The fungus is a white rot so it breaks down lignin in the wood. The breaking down of the lignin leads to the trees becoming hollow.	 avocado Armillaria tabescens

Black rotBotryosphaeria obtusa enters the fruit through wounds. These can be made by insects, birds or growth cracks. At first a brown spot, near the calyx, appears on the fruit. The spot on the fruit then enlarges and black/brown rings appear on the fruit. The fruit holds its shape, however, unlike other fruit diseases. The fruit will then wither up and can remain on the tree for another year before falling off. During this time pycnidia appear on the surface of the rotted fruit.Frogeye leaf spotIn leaves the fungus begins by causing purple specks on infected leaves. These then enlarge to cause large spots on the leaf, developing a brown color. The spots appear to have rings of brown with a purple margin, thus giving it its frogeye appearance. The spots can then produce pycnidia which can separate this species of fungus from other possible leaf fungi.CankerOn twigs, branches and trunks B. obtusa can infect where there has been a winter injury or fire blight cankers. Slightly sunken reddish/brown spots appear on the infected areas of bark. These then enlarge to form cankers, which can then enlarge slightly more each year. The bark usually dies and can, after time, be pulled away from the tree. In older cankers the pycnidia appear on the bark.Black dead arm disease of grapevineBotryosphaeria obtusa is the pathogen of black dead arm disease of grapevine. It has been shown to be able to oxidise wood δ-resveratrol into delta-viniferin.	 avocado Botryosphaeria obtusa

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 avocado Botryosphaeria rhodina

Armillaria species infect a wide variety of woody plants. In a survey of 250 permanent plots of trees in Albania, Armillaria tabescens affected multiple species of trees including fir species, where it invaded when the plant was stressed. Tsopelas et al. reported Armillaria tabescens to be more prevalent in areas where the trees were stressed due to limited moisture. In oak trees, it was slightly more damaging and could kill young trees. Armillaria tabescens was also recorded in poplar and eucalyptus plantations, and almond trees were found to be very susceptible to infection. The results of the study by Lushaj et al. showed that Armillaria tabescens was most frequently recorded on fruit and ornamental trees compared to the other species.Armillaria tabescens causes separation of the bark from the wood by the production of mycelial fans in the trunk, a common sign of Armillaria root rot. It also causes gummosis, patches of gummy material on the surface of plants, which occurs in response to an external stimulus which causes the plant to ooze sap. Other common symptoms are soft rot of cortex, dwarfing, dieback, wilting, and abnormal coloring of the leaves. Small trees are killed rapidly by Armillaria tabescens and the symptoms aren’t noticeable until the leaves wilt. However, on larger trees symptoms occur earlier and start as a thin crown with small leaves. A crown of a tree refers to any branches or foliage that are growing out from the trunk. Therefore, thinning of the crown would mean reduced branches and leaves. The trees eventually start yellowing and defoliating followed by fast wilting and dying of limbs. The fungus is a white rot so it breaks down lignin in the wood. The breaking down of the lignin leads to the trees becoming hollow.	 avocado Clitocybe tabescens

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 avocado Colletotrichum gloeosporioides

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 avocado Diplodia cacaoicola

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 avocado Diplodia natalensis

Symptoms of Ganoderma zonatum are general decline in the health of the plant, wilting and discoloration of the leaves and slow growth. However, this is noticeable in many different plant diseases and can not be used as a diagnosis tool. There are only two ways to fully identify G. zonatum. One is the basidiocarp (or conk) forming on the plant with the other viewing the internal rotting of the palm on the inside once it has been cut down.	 avocado Ganoderma sulcatum

Symptoms of Ganoderma zonatum are general decline in the health of the plant, wilting and discoloration of the leaves and slow growth. However, this is noticeable in many different plant diseases and can not be used as a diagnosis tool. There are only two ways to fully identify G. zonatum. One is the basidiocarp (or conk) forming on the plant with the other viewing the internal rotting of the palm on the inside once it has been cut down.	 avocado Ganoderma zonatum

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 avocado Glomerella cingulata

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 avocado Lasiodiplodia theobromae

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 avocado Physalospora fusca

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 avocado Physalospora glandicola

Black rotBotryosphaeria obtusa enters the fruit through wounds. These can be made by insects, birds or growth cracks. At first a brown spot, near the calyx, appears on the fruit. The spot on the fruit then enlarges and black/brown rings appear on the fruit. The fruit holds its shape, however, unlike other fruit diseases. The fruit will then wither up and can remain on the tree for another year before falling off. During this time pycnidia appear on the surface of the rotted fruit.Frogeye leaf spotIn leaves the fungus begins by causing purple specks on infected leaves. These then enlarge to cause large spots on the leaf, developing a brown color. The spots appear to have rings of brown with a purple margin, thus giving it its frogeye appearance. The spots can then produce pycnidia which can separate this species of fungus from other possible leaf fungi.CankerOn twigs, branches and trunks B. obtusa can infect where there has been a winter injury or fire blight cankers. Slightly sunken reddish/brown spots appear on the infected areas of bark. These then enlarge to form cankers, which can then enlarge slightly more each year. The bark usually dies and can, after time, be pulled away from the tree. In older cankers the pycnidia appear on the bark.Black dead arm disease of grapevineBotryosphaeria obtusa is the pathogen of black dead arm disease of grapevine. It has been shown to be able to oxidise wood δ-resveratrol into delta-viniferin.	 avocado Physalospora obtusa

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 avocado Physalospora rhodina

The host range for Phytophythora cinnamomi is very broad. It is distributed worldwide and causes disease on hundreds of hosts. The disease affects a range of economic groups, including food crops such as avocado and pineapple as well as trees and woody ornamentals such as Fraser firs, shortleaf pines, loblolly pines, azaleas, camellia, boxwood, causing root rot and dieback. It is a root pathogen that causes root rot and death of host plants. Some symptoms include: wilting, decreased fruit size, decrease in yield, collar rot, gum exudation, necrosis, leaf chlorosis, leaf curl, and stem cankers. Another symptom is that it can cause dieback of young shoots and may interfere with transpiration of roots to shoots. Older plants may not exhibit symptoms or may display only mild dieback despite having severe root rot.	 avocado Phytophthora cinnamomi

Although the common name of Phytophthora palmivora is bud rot of palms, and its Latin name means "plant destroyer" and "palm eater", it affects many tropical plants and has a moderately broad host range. P. palmivora is well studied in coconuts and papaya trees, however there are multiple hosts that are less commonly studied.  One common symptom of P. palmivora is fruit rots which are found in papaya, citrus, coconuts, durian, and cacao. Root rots are another symptom of P. palmivora and can be seen in red maples, citrus, papaya, mango, durian, and black pepper. Another symptom is the presence of cankers which are found in red maple, papaya, rubber, mangos, and cacao. Bud rots can also be seen in papaya and coconuts infected with P. palmivora. Bud rots are also found in Palmyra palms and coconut palms. Collar rots are found on citrus, mango, and black pepper infected with P. palmivora. The signs of P. palmivora are microscopic and can be differentiated from other oomycetes by the presence of oval shaped papillate sporangia with short pedicles and spherical oogonia with narrow stalks (Widmer, 2014).	 avocado Phytophthora palmivora

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 avocado Rhizoctonia solani

Rosellinia bunodes is a facultative soil saprophyte capable of infecting a wide range of hosts, including native forest species and important agricultural crops like tea, citrus, coffee, yam, fig, rubber, cassava, banana, avocado, pepper, potato, cocoa, ginger, daffodils, yerba mate and poplar. New reports of susceptible hosts are also still occasionally reported. Outbreaks of black root rot in agricultural systems and the wild often occur in circular patches. Despite the pathogen's wide host range, disease signs and symptoms typically present in the same manner regardless of host species. Symptoms and disease progression have been likened to those caused by Phytophthora spp. and Armillaria spp.Importantly, R. bunodes is capable of infecting hosts at any age or developmental stage, from young seedlings to mature trees, and shows rapid root colonization abilities on susceptible hosts. The earliest symptoms are visible just seven days after inoculation in vitro as brown lesions on roots that progressively darken to black. Dark discoloration of vascular bundles is visible shortly thereafter.Once inside the vascular tissue, R. bunodes compromises xylem flow and transport of nutrients to aerial parts of the host resulting in chlorosis, wilting, dry die-back, leaf drop, and eventually host death. In controlled laboratory experiments, vegetative symptoms like chlorosis and wilting in two-year-old poplar (Populus deltoides) saplings were observed 14 days after inoculation, and field observations describe death of mature trees within 3–4 years. In 6-month-old coffee seedlings, 98% died within 10 days of inoculation with R. bunodes.Early signs of R. bunodes colonization include white, cottony growth on roots that also progressively darken with age. As mycelia grow, they form dense mats over roots and at the base of tree trunks that thicken into irregular knots and aggregate into rhizomorphs. Over time mycelia darken to form black, branching strands firmly attached to host roots; occasionally black dots are visible before this color change, indicating production of asexual and sexual survival structures. Darkened, mature hyphae can also develop and function as microsclerotia, however germination of microsclerotia has never been achieved in a laboratory setting nor observed in nature.	 avocado Rosellinia bunodes

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 avocado Sclerotinia libertiana

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 avocado Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

Symptoms on the leaf begin as small lesions that are predominantly red in color. Both upper and lower surfaces of the leaf are susceptible to the disease. The upper surface is more susceptible than the lower surface and in both cases the lesions are concentrated along the veins of the leaf. Overall, the formation of lesions occurs in the higher canopy of the tree. With progression of the disease, lesions may join to form star-like patterns and eventually the centers of the lesions become necrotic and fall away leaving holes in the leaf tissue. Other symptoms include the appearance of infected leaves as shrunken in comparison to healthy leaves and a disfiguration of the leaf shape. After the initial infection, lesions may spread to more parts of the plant such as twigs and leaf petioles.The symptoms on the fruit are the scabs that the disease is named for. They appear as raised bumps with irregular borders and can be brown or purple in color. The lesions are generally 3mm in diameter but have been measured up to 10mm. The texture of the scabs are rough and cracked which is in contrast to the smooth and shiny avocado skin. The dramatic differences in color and texture make it easy to identify the scabs on host trees. Procession of the infection leads to fusion of the discrete scabs to form larger rutted patches. These areas may crack, exposing the vulnerable tissue underneath and allowing secondary organisms such as Colletotrichum gloeosporioides to penetrate into the fruit tissue and cause anthracnose.There are no signs of the pathogen visible to the naked eye so observation of fungal structures have to be performed with a microscope. Diagnosis is supported by these distinctive symptoms of avocado scab. The pathogen is host specific and further testing can be done to corroborate the initial identification. Certain polymerase chain reaction (PCR) primers have been designed and tested to consistently identify S. perseae with DNA sequencing techniques. An isolate of the pathogen in pure culture can also be identified by its morphological characteristics and that can be used in diagnosis.	 avocado Sphaceloma perseae

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 avocado Thanatephorus cucumeris

There are many strains of Verticillium dahliae which are categorized into vegetative compatibility groups (VCG). These groups comprise strains that are able to exchange genetic material via anastomosis. Each VCG affects a few or only one host and the virulence of the pathogen varies by host. While individual V. dahliae strains are relatively host specific, as a species it has a wide range.Verticillium dahliae has a very wide host range, affecting over 300 plant species. Some susceptible crops include Brussels sprouts, cabbage, eggplant, cucumbers, mint, pepper, potatoes, pumpkin, spinach, tomato, watermelon, honeydew, and cantaloupe. Of these, tomato, potato, and eggplant have resistant or tolerant varieties.Symptoms of this disease are seen throughout the plant. Leaves may have abnormal coloration, necrotic areas, wilt, and/or fall off the plant. The stem may have discolored vascular tissue, exhibit rosetting (shortened internodes of the plant caused by reduced growth, resulting in a rosette-like appearance), and/or be stunted. Early senescence and dieback may also occur.Microsclerotia can be seen under a lens as small black structures in the vasculature of living and dead plants. This feature can be used to distinguish V. dahliae from V. albo-atrum, the other verticillium wilt pathogen.	 avocado Verticillium dahliae

Visible deficiency symptoms include:Chlorosis - yellowing of leaves; often interveinal; in some species, young leaves are the most affected, but in others both old and new leaves are chlorotic;Necrotic spots - death of leaf tissue on areas of chlorosis;Bronzing of leaves - chlorotic areas may turn bronze coloured;Rosetting of leaves - zinc-deficient dicotyledons often have shortened internodes, so leaves are clustered on the stem;Stunting of plants - small plants may occur as a result of reduced growth or because of reduced internode elongation;Dwarf leaves ('little leaf') - small leaves that often show chlorosis, necrotic spots or bronzing;Malformed leaves - leaves are often narrower or have wavy margins.	 avocado Zinc deficiency (plant disorder)

Armillaria mellea typically infects hardwood trees and conifers but sometimes will infect non-woody monocots and a few herbaceous plants. There are few signs, and the ones that do exist are often hard to find. The most prominent sign is honey-colored mushrooms at the base of the infected plant. Additional signs include white, fan-shaped mycelia and black rhizomorphs with diameters between 1/32nd of an inch and 1/8th of an inch. These usually are not as noticeable because they occur beneath the bark and in the soil, respectively. The symptoms are much more numerous, including slower growth, dieback of branches, yellowing foliage, rotted wood at base and/or roots, external cankers, cracking bark, bleeding stem, leaf wilting, defoliation, and rapid death. Leaf wilting, defoliation, and dieback occur after the destruction of the cambium.	 azalea Armillaria mellea

Armillaria species infect a wide variety of woody plants. In a survey of 250 permanent plots of trees in Albania, Armillaria tabescens affected multiple species of trees including fir species, where it invaded when the plant was stressed. Tsopelas et al. reported Armillaria tabescens to be more prevalent in areas where the trees were stressed due to limited moisture. In oak trees, it was slightly more damaging and could kill young trees. Armillaria tabescens was also recorded in poplar and eucalyptus plantations, and almond trees were found to be very susceptible to infection. The results of the study by Lushaj et al. showed that Armillaria tabescens was most frequently recorded on fruit and ornamental trees compared to the other species.Armillaria tabescens causes separation of the bark from the wood by the production of mycelial fans in the trunk, a common sign of Armillaria root rot. It also causes gummosis, patches of gummy material on the surface of plants, which occurs in response to an external stimulus which causes the plant to ooze sap. Other common symptoms are soft rot of cortex, dwarfing, dieback, wilting, and abnormal coloring of the leaves. Small trees are killed rapidly by Armillaria tabescens and the symptoms aren’t noticeable until the leaves wilt. However, on larger trees symptoms occur earlier and start as a thin crown with small leaves. A crown of a tree refers to any branches or foliage that are growing out from the trunk. Therefore, thinning of the crown would mean reduced branches and leaves. The trees eventually start yellowing and defoliating followed by fast wilting and dying of limbs. The fungus is a white rot so it breaks down lignin in the wood. The breaking down of the lignin leads to the trees becoming hollow.	 azalea Armillaria tabescens

Armillaria species infect a wide variety of woody plants. In a survey of 250 permanent plots of trees in Albania, Armillaria tabescens affected multiple species of trees including fir species, where it invaded when the plant was stressed. Tsopelas et al. reported Armillaria tabescens to be more prevalent in areas where the trees were stressed due to limited moisture. In oak trees, it was slightly more damaging and could kill young trees. Armillaria tabescens was also recorded in poplar and eucalyptus plantations, and almond trees were found to be very susceptible to infection. The results of the study by Lushaj et al. showed that Armillaria tabescens was most frequently recorded on fruit and ornamental trees compared to the other species.Armillaria tabescens causes separation of the bark from the wood by the production of mycelial fans in the trunk, a common sign of Armillaria root rot. It also causes gummosis, patches of gummy material on the surface of plants, which occurs in response to an external stimulus which causes the plant to ooze sap. Other common symptoms are soft rot of cortex, dwarfing, dieback, wilting, and abnormal coloring of the leaves. Small trees are killed rapidly by Armillaria tabescens and the symptoms aren’t noticeable until the leaves wilt. However, on larger trees symptoms occur earlier and start as a thin crown with small leaves. A crown of a tree refers to any branches or foliage that are growing out from the trunk. Therefore, thinning of the crown would mean reduced branches and leaves. The trees eventually start yellowing and defoliating followed by fast wilting and dying of limbs. The fungus is a white rot so it breaks down lignin in the wood. The breaking down of the lignin leads to the trees becoming hollow.	 azalea Clitocybe tabescens

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 azalea Colletotrichum gloeosporioides

Symptoms appear as dirty white, circular, floury patches on either sides of the leaves.Under favourable environmental conditions, entire leaves, stems, floral parts and pods are affected.The whole leaf may be covered with powdery mass.If persistent, mild chlorosis or necrosis can also occur.	 azalea Erysiphe polygoni

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 azalea Glomerella cingulata

The host range for Phytophythora cinnamomi is very broad. It is distributed worldwide and causes disease on hundreds of hosts. The disease affects a range of economic groups, including food crops such as avocado and pineapple as well as trees and woody ornamentals such as Fraser firs, shortleaf pines, loblolly pines, azaleas, camellia, boxwood, causing root rot and dieback. It is a root pathogen that causes root rot and death of host plants. Some symptoms include: wilting, decreased fruit size, decrease in yield, collar rot, gum exudation, necrosis, leaf chlorosis, leaf curl, and stem cankers. Another symptom is that it can cause dieback of young shoots and may interfere with transpiration of roots to shoots. Older plants may not exhibit symptoms or may display only mild dieback despite having severe root rot.	 azalea Phytophthora cinnamomi

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 azalea Phytophthora nicotianae var. parasitica

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 azalea Phytophthora parasitica

Pythium irregulare is an oomycete that causes pre- and post-emergence damping off, as well as root rot. Pre-emergence damping off occurs when P. irregulare infects seeds before they emerge, causing them to rot and turn brown, thus preventing successful growth. Alternatively, post-emergence damping off occurs when the oomycete infects just after the seed has germinated. This usually causes infection in the roots and stem which appears as water soaking and necrosis. Depending on the severity, plants may collapse or be severely stunted. In plants that are older and more established, P. irregulare causes root rot. This will initially cause necrotic lesions, which leads to chlorosis, reduced yield, poor growth, and stunting due to inadequate water and nutrient acquisition by the roots. Additionally, P. irregulare is often found coinfecting with other Pythium species. All three of these diseases caused by P. irregulare can be caused by other pathogens as well, so a disease diagnosis is not necessarily indicative of P. irregulareIn order to identify Pythium irregulare it is necessary to isolate the organism and observe it microscopically. First, it is important to identify that the microbe is an oomycete by looking for characteristics that are specific to oomycetes, such as coenocytic hyphae, zoospores, and oospores. After that, one can identify the microbe as being in the genera Pythium by observing disease symptoms, host range, as well as the presence of a vesicle, where zoospores form, which is attached to the sporangia. In contrast, most other oomycetes do not have a vesicle and the zoospores form in the sporangia. Finally, once the genera has been identified, it is helpful to use a dichotomous key to identify the species. Some of the key identifiers for P. irregulare include oogonia with irregular shaped, cylindrical projections, sporangia that occur singly, sporangia that are not filamentous, and oogonia smaller than 30 μm. There are also many genomic tests that can be done to determine species based on specific DNA markers. It is also important to note that many diagnosticians do not identify to the species level because it can be difficult to find all necessary microscopic structures and many management techniques can be applied to all Pythium species.Pythium irregulare has a very broad host range, including many agronomically and horticulturally important crops and is found on every continent except for Antarctica. P. irregulare infects over 200 species, including cereals, legumes, fruits, vegetables, and ornamentals. It differs from many other Pythium species in that it prefers cooler environments. A moist environment is also necessary for disease, which aids motility of spores. It is commonly found in both greenhouses and fields.	 azalea Pythium irregulare

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 azalea Rhizoctonia solani

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 azalea Thanatephorus cucumeris

Symptoms of sugarcane mosaic virus include intense mottling throughout the laminar region of the plant, characterized by discoloration of the plants leaves, and growth stunting. In maize, the infection occurs first in the youngest leaves with symptoms such as irregular, light or dark green mosaic coloring developing along the veins. The virus can result in severe yield loss of the infected host and the disease eventually leads to necrosis. Diagnosis of sugarcane mosaic virus is achieved first through recognizing the typical light green mosaic pattern of the infection, electron microscopy of leaf dips, as well as virus isolation and purification methods. One diagnosis technique being studied is the next-generation sequencing method (NGS) or sap inoculation, which was found to have a 90% success rate in a 2011 study. NGS could allow quick assessment of disease and be used for routine diagnosis against potential disease-causing agents.	 banana and plantain Abaca mosaic virus

Armillaria mellea typically infects hardwood trees and conifers but sometimes will infect non-woody monocots and a few herbaceous plants. There are few signs, and the ones that do exist are often hard to find. The most prominent sign is honey-colored mushrooms at the base of the infected plant. Additional signs include white, fan-shaped mycelia and black rhizomorphs with diameters between 1/32nd of an inch and 1/8th of an inch. These usually are not as noticeable because they occur beneath the bark and in the soil, respectively. The symptoms are much more numerous, including slower growth, dieback of branches, yellowing foliage, rotted wood at base and/or roots, external cankers, cracking bark, bleeding stem, leaf wilting, defoliation, and rapid death. Leaf wilting, defoliation, and dieback occur after the destruction of the cambium.	 banana and plantain Armillaria mellea

Armillaria species infect a wide variety of woody plants. In a survey of 250 permanent plots of trees in Albania, Armillaria tabescens affected multiple species of trees including fir species, where it invaded when the plant was stressed. Tsopelas et al. reported Armillaria tabescens to be more prevalent in areas where the trees were stressed due to limited moisture. In oak trees, it was slightly more damaging and could kill young trees. Armillaria tabescens was also recorded in poplar and eucalyptus plantations, and almond trees were found to be very susceptible to infection. The results of the study by Lushaj et al. showed that Armillaria tabescens was most frequently recorded on fruit and ornamental trees compared to the other species.Armillaria tabescens causes separation of the bark from the wood by the production of mycelial fans in the trunk, a common sign of Armillaria root rot. It also causes gummosis, patches of gummy material on the surface of plants, which occurs in response to an external stimulus which causes the plant to ooze sap. Other common symptoms are soft rot of cortex, dwarfing, dieback, wilting, and abnormal coloring of the leaves. Small trees are killed rapidly by Armillaria tabescens and the symptoms aren’t noticeable until the leaves wilt. However, on larger trees symptoms occur earlier and start as a thin crown with small leaves. A crown of a tree refers to any branches or foliage that are growing out from the trunk. Therefore, thinning of the crown would mean reduced branches and leaves. The trees eventually start yellowing and defoliating followed by fast wilting and dying of limbs. The fungus is a white rot so it breaks down lignin in the wood. The breaking down of the lignin leads to the trees becoming hollow.	 banana and plantain Armillaria tabescens

Banana bunchy top disease affects the banana fruit and foliage, and is caused by a single-strand DNA virus, the banana bunchy top virus.  BBTV can infect species of the family Musaceae, which includes bananas, plantains, abaca, and more. The aphids also feed on Heliconia and flowering ginger, which are grown in the same regions as bananas and must be considered in management of the disease. It is best to establish a banana production area where these alternate hosts are not present.  Any age plants can be infected by this virus, but some varieties of banana, including the Cavendish, are more susceptible to the virus.  In areas where the virus is less common, the disease is usually spread by planting diseased suckers at the beginning of the season, which means the season is started with a diseased crop.The pathogen causes cytopathological effects in the phloem tissue, which is the damaging of the host cells caused by the virus. The damage causes many effects that help to diagnose and characterize the disease. The name of the disease comes from the symptom which occurs in older plants, in which the new leaves that are produced are narrower than normal, yellow, and flat, which causes a “bunchy” appearance at the top of the tree. If any fruit is produced, which is unusual, it will be deformed.  In addition, one of the most distinctive symptoms is “Morse code streaking” where the infected cells die and are lighter in color, causing irregular spots and dashes on the leaves that are easier to see when the waxy coating over the petiole is rubbed away.	 banana and plantain Banana bunchy top virus

Botryosphaeria ribis is an ascomycete plant pathogen that primarily affects woody hosts in a number of temperate and tropical regions. The susceptible hosts include a number of economically important plants such as apple, peach, almond, banana, and walnut trees, among others.  The disease is noted by cankers, leaf spots, and necrosis, as well as twig dieback. On healthy leaves, the necrosis begins apically at the margins, extending back along the midrib, occasionally reaching the base and causing complete blight of the leaf.  Twig dieback also starts apically and works towards the center of the plant.  It is characterized by a slow necrosis of the branch, leaving large, dead limbs on the upper portions of trees.  Under the microscope, it can be identified by its immersed, pyriform perithecia (pear-shaped, spore-containing structures), which have a brown exterior wall.  The ascospores within the perithecia are ellipsoid in shape, with a smooth exterior and granular cytoplasm.  The anamorph (asexual stage) of B. ribis is Fusicoccum ribis, and although less abundant, it is characterized by globose pycnidia containing smooth, hyaline macro- and microconidia.  These symptoms have the potential to significantly decrease yield or kill the host.	 banana and plantain Botryosphaeria ribis

One of the most well-known diseases caused by Ceratocystis paradoxa is Black rot or stem-end rot of pineapple, but it can also infect tropical fruit plants such as banana and coconuts as well as sugarcane. The pathogen infects the fruits through wounds or other openings after harvest has already happened and the fruit is fresh.Symptoms for this disease are very obvious black lesions on the fruit, the main infection part of the plant. If the pathogen infects the plant while fruits are still on it, they will prematurely drop. Other symptoms include discoloration of leaves as well as the seeds. The lesions on the fruit evolve to become soft rot spots that produce a heinous odor. The fruit can even get to the point of breakdown.Known hosts:Ananas comosus (pineapple)AraceaeAreca catechu (betelnut palm)Borassus flabellifer (toddy palm)Butia capitataCocos nucifera (coconut)Coffea (coffee)Daucus carota (carrot)Dypsis decaryiElaeis guineensis (African oil palm)EucalyptusHowea forsteriana (paradise palm)Mangifera indica (mango)Musa x paradisiaca (plantain)Phoenix dactylifera (date-palm)Saccharum officinarum (sugarcane)Solanum muricatum (melon pear)Theobroma cacao (cocoa)Zea mays (maize)	 banana and plantain Ceratocystis paradoxa

One of the most well-known diseases caused by Ceratocystis paradoxa is Black rot or stem-end rot of pineapple, but it can also infect tropical fruit plants such as banana and coconuts as well as sugarcane. The pathogen infects the fruits through wounds or other openings after harvest has already happened and the fruit is fresh.Symptoms for this disease are very obvious black lesions on the fruit, the main infection part of the plant. If the pathogen infects the plant while fruits are still on it, they will prematurely drop. Other symptoms include discoloration of leaves as well as the seeds. The lesions on the fruit evolve to become soft rot spots that produce a heinous odor. The fruit can even get to the point of breakdown.Known hosts:Ananas comosus (pineapple)AraceaeAreca catechu (betelnut palm)Borassus flabellifer (toddy palm)Butia capitataCocos nucifera (coconut)Coffea (coffee)Daucus carota (carrot)Dypsis decaryiElaeis guineensis (African oil palm)EucalyptusHowea forsteriana (paradise palm)Mangifera indica (mango)Musa x paradisiaca (plantain)Phoenix dactylifera (date-palm)Saccharum officinarum (sugarcane)Solanum muricatum (melon pear)Theobroma cacao (cocoa)Zea mays (maize)	 banana and plantain Chalara paradoxa

Symptoms appear as dark brown/black lesions on green fruit. On yellow fruit these lesions increase in size, orange fungal growth can be found in centre of lesions. Symptoms can also be found on the tips of fruit. Symptoms also include premature ripening of fruit.	 banana and plantain Colletotrichum musae

This virus was first characterized in cucumbers (Cucumis sativus) showing mosaic symptoms in 1934, hence the name Cucumber mosaic. Since then, it has been found to infect a great variety of other plants. These include other vegetables such as squash, melons, peppers, eggplants, tomatoes, beans, carrots, celery, lettuce, spinach, beets, many ornamentals and bedding plants, such as Narcissus, and various weeds. Its presence has been confirmed on every continent of the world, including Antarctica.Symptoms seen with this virus include leaf mosaic or mottling (Fig. 1), yellowing, ringspots, stunting, and leaf, flower and fruit distortion. CMV also induces a type of symptom on leaves known as the "shoestring" effect on many host species. This effect causes young leaves to appear narrow and the entire plant to be stunted.Specifically, CMV can cause cucumbers to turn pale and bumpy. The leaves of these plants turn mosaic and their rugosity is often changed, making leaves wrinkled and misshapen. Growth of these plants is usually also stunted and produces few flowers. Often, cucumber fruits are oddly shaped, appear gray, and tested bitter. These appearances lead to them being referred to as "white pickles".Tomato plants are usually stunted and have poorly shaped leaves, or "fernleaf", when infected by CMV. Also certain strains of CMV can cause partial or total crop loss. CMV in peppers causes slightly different symptoms than the previously mentioned. Pepper plants often have severe foliar damage, shown as mosaic and necrotic rings. Often the peppers themselves are misshapen and contain chlorotic rings and spots. In celery, CMV causes streaking and spotting and can be often confused with symptoms of the celery mosaic virus. Symptoms of CMV in lettuce, such as chlorosis, plant stunting and often do not properly head, can be very similar to those of lettuce mosaic virus.CMV has also been identified in a lesser extent to a number of plant species. It is found to be a minor virus infecting Allium crops. The virus infection causes extensive malformation on garlic plants, and mild malformation to severe necrotic streaks on onion leaves. The severe damages on garlic plants and difficulty of aphids transmission of garlic isolate, were possible causal for the rare CMV on garlic. Genetically, the two onion isolates from Turkey (CMV-14.3Po and CMV-15.5Po) are highly similar to others isolated from various plant species in Mediterranean, European, and East Asian countries. CMV was also detected on American beautyberry, an important wildlife and pollinator food source plant native to North America.In plant tissue this virus makes characteristic viral inclusion bodies which can be diagnostic. They are hexagonal in shape (Fig. 2) and stain both in a protein stain and a nucleic acid stain. The inclusions can also be rhomboidal, may appear hollow (Fig. 2) and can form larger aggregates. The inclusions are not uniformly distributed and can be found in epidermal (Fig. 2), mesophyll, and stomatal cells. These inclusions are made up of virus particles.			 banana and plantain Cucumber mosaic virus

D. dadantii is phytopathogenic bacterium causing soft rot diseases on many host plants including some which are economically important. D. dadantii, more commonly known as: soft rot, brown rot or blackleg, causes characteristic symptoms associated with other bacterial wilts, causing final diagnosis to be difficult. The pathogen primarily seeks to attack the plant's xylem vessels located in leaves, stems, blossoms and storage organs of herbaceous plants. D. dadantii is able to infect hosts at any point in its life cycle. In addition to symptoms of wilt, the disease appears as sunken and cracked external lesions also having a brown interior in cross section in subterranean bulbs and tubers Diseased plants will display a variety of symptoms including: wilting, stunting and vascular discoloration of the stems. Early symptoms include water soaked lesions at the site of infection, gradually expanding chlorotic leaves and loss of turgor in tissues. The intensity of D. dadantii colonization relates to the amount of disease and degree of damage. The pathogen is very successful at infiltrating host tissues due to the many pectinases responsible for disassembly of plant cell wall polysaccharides. Once the cell wall is degraded cellular structure collapses and this cell maceration gives a characteristic "water-soaked" or rotted appearance. D. dadantii grow intercellularly, continuing to degrade cells and colonize, until it eventually reaches xylem tissues. Upon reaching the xylem vessels D. dadantii possesses the ability to spread to new regions of the host and other areas may begin to display symptoms. Colonization within the xylem restricts flow of water causing loss of turgor pressure and wilting of foliage and stems. Restricted movement of important plant compounds eventually lead to death of the host.	 banana and plantain Erwinia chrysanthemi

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 banana and plantain Fusarium solani

Gibberella fujikuroi is most widely known for its disease producing capabilities in rice, but barley, millet, sugarcane and maize are also susceptible. In all infected plants, similar symptoms have been found, though rice has been most predominantly studied. The most telltale symptom of Bakanae is the tall, spindly look of the plant. This is a result of the gibberellins, or growth hormones, the fungus secretes. Infected plants are easy to pick out, then, as they often rise above the rest of the healthy plants with regularly secreted growth hormones.  However, it is also possible that stunting may occur, along with Chlorosis of the leaves of the plant, root lesions, or empty grains of plants grown to maturity.	 banana and plantain Gibberella fujikuroi

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 banana and plantain Lasiodiplodia theobromae

These nematodes cause symptoms both on leaves and roots. Foliar symptoms of root-knot disease may be expressed at any time during the growing season. These symptoms of nematode damage on peanut plants range from stunting, yellowing, wilting and even plant death.  Ferris (1999–2012), also reported that nematodes cause yellowing; mid-day wilting; symptoms of water and nutrient stress; and sometimes death, especially if the nematode is interacting with other organisms.  They can appear in a peanut crop beginning about 100 days after planting or after periods of dry hot weather.  Areas of root-knot nematode damaged peanut are usually round to oblong in shape, and rows of infected plants may never overlap as those of healthy plants. It is common for plants to wilt and eventually die in areas where nematode populations are high.Root symptoms are similar to those caused by all nematodes including a reduction in number of feeder roots and root stunting, but root knot nematodes cause unique symptoms on roots and pods. Nematodes cause galls (knots) to form on both roots and pods of the peanut, and these galls are highly diagnostic for root-knot nematode presence compared to other nematodes affecting peanut. The presence of galls on roots, pegs and pods appears as single or multiple wart-like growths that may or may not be discolored. As root knot nematode infection progresses, and generally later in the season, secondary root and pod rots cause further damage and eventual death of the plants.Many soil-borne fungi, especially Sclerotium rolfsii (which causes southern stem rot) and Sclerotinia minor (which causes Sclerotinia blight), will infect the weakened peanut plants and cause more plant death. Root knot nematode infection of the peg weakens the peg so that it breaks during harvest, contributing to additional yield losses because the detached pods are then left in the soil. Infection of the pods leads to a decline in yield quality.The damage threshold, or the initial nematode population density at which peanut yields begin to decline, has been reported to be in the range of 1 to 10 eggs and second stage juveniles per 500 cm3 soil for M. arenaria on susceptible peanut cultivars.	 banana and plantain Meloidogyne arenaria

Plants affected by M. incognita present above ground symptoms of water- and nutrient-stress, yellowing, wilting, and stunting. Below ground galling on roots, bulbs, tubers is the typical symptom. Plant death may occur in high infestation level.	 banana and plantain Meloidogyne incognita

Because there are so many different hosts for this pathogen, the symptoms are very variable. Common symptoms include abnormal leaf color, abnormal leaf form, wilting leaves, galls, swollen roots, reduced root system, dwarfing and senescence (Cabi 2018). This pathogen does the most damage when present in light soils with hot weather conditions (Alford 2012).	 banana and plantain Meloidogyne javanica

Black Sigatoka is also known as black leaf streak. The pathogen Mycosphaerella fijiensis causes streaks that run parallel to the leaves. It is an ascomycete fungus that affects banana trees specifically in tropical climates; including Asia, West Africa, China, and South America. Tropical weather is the preferred climate for banana cultivation, but it is also the environment where the pathogen thrives: hot and humid, with plenty of rainfall to aid in dispersal. The optimal environment of the pathogen is similar to that of the banana tree. The fungus infects mature banana leaves and will continue to cause infection without proper control.In the early stages of the infection of the plant, the lesions have a rusty brown appearance and appear to be faint, paint-like specks on the leaves. They become more visible on the undersides of the banana leaf as the lesions and leaves grow. The spots on the undersides of leaf are the fungus itself. The sign of the pathogen consists of the ascocarp which holds the ascospores used for dissemination to infect healthy new plants when the environment is conducive. The pathogen then survives on dead plant tissue as mycelium. The dimensions of the lesions are characteristically 20 by 2 millimetres (25⁄32 in × 5⁄64 in) with a well defined wall surrounding it. After further development, they become darker, sink into the leaf, and turn into depressions. The depressions themselves and the chlorosis surrounding them are the visible symptoms of the plant pathogen. They eventually will merge, causing the rapid decline of plant morphological and physiological function. Leaves with large infectious lesions will start to degrade and collapse because the leaf spots interrupt the plant's ability to perform photosynthesis, leading to the ultimate death of the plant.The yellow leaf streak pathogen is in the same genus as that of black leaf streak. Yellow leaf streak shows smaller, yellow-green lesions that appear on top of the leaves.	 banana and plantain Mycosphaerella fijiensis

It is not always easy to differentiate between the symptoms of SD and BLSD. The first sign of disease in SD is the appearance of small yellow streaks on the upper side of leaves while in BLSD small, dark brown streaks appear on the lower surface of leaves. These streaks enlarge and coalesce forming necrotic lesions with light gray centres and yellow perimeters. Large areas of leaf can be damaged causing a lowering of photosynthetic ability, a reduction in crop yield and premature ripening of the fruit. BLSD is the more serious of the diseases as the symptoms emerge on younger leaves and it affects many cultivars that have developed resistance to SD, including the plantain subgroup.	 banana and plantain Mycosphaerella musicola

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 banana and plantain Nectria haematococca

It has been shown that the fungus usually requires wounds to infect the plant and necessary for the fungus to develop. The first symptoms of Pestalotiopsis palmarum begin as very small yellow, brown or black discoloration of the leaves.  The disease can be restricted to the leaf blade or may only appear on the petiole and rachis right away.  Spots and discoloration areas can be smaller than 0.25 inches (6.4 mm) in size, but under optimal conditions can grow much larger eventually forming lesions.  The spots will often turn a grayish color and will be outlined in black.  Extreme wilting and a drying appearance on the leaves is also a major symptom of Pestalotiopsis palm.In mature palms, if the fungus is limited to only leaf spots, the disease may not be very serious and damaging.  However, the fungus can severely affect juvenile plants if only a few leaf spots are present because they have yet to develop a trunk and only have a few leaves.	 banana and plantain Pestalotiopsis palmarum

It is not always easy to differentiate between the symptoms of SD and BLSD. The first sign of disease in SD is the appearance of small yellow streaks on the upper side of leaves while in BLSD small, dark brown streaks appear on the lower surface of leaves. These streaks enlarge and coalesce forming necrotic lesions with light gray centres and yellow perimeters. Large areas of leaf can be damaged causing a lowering of photosynthetic ability, a reduction in crop yield and premature ripening of the fruit. BLSD is the more serious of the diseases as the symptoms emerge on younger leaves and it affects many cultivars that have developed resistance to SD, including the plantain subgroup.	 banana and plantain Pseudocercospora musae

 M. grisea is an ascomycete fungus. It is an extremely effective plant pathogen as it can reproduce both sexually and asexually to produce specialized infectious structures known as appressoria that infect aerial tissues and hyphae that can infect root tissues.Rice blast has been observed on rice strains M-201, M-202, M-204, M-205, M-103, M-104, S-102, L-204, Calmochi-101, with M-201 being the most vulnerable. Initial symptoms are white to gray-green lesions or spots with darker borders produced on all parts of the shoot, while older lesions are elliptical or spindle-shaped and whitish to gray with necrotic borders. Lesions may enlarge and coalesce to kill the entire leaf. Symptoms are observed on all above-ground parts of the plant. Lesions can be seen on the leaf collar, culm, culm nodes, and panicle neck node. Internodal infection of the culm occurs in a banded pattern. Nodal infection causes the culm to break at the infected node (rotten neck). It also affects reproduction by causing the host to produce fewer seeds. This is caused by the disease preventing maturation of the actual grain.	 banana and plantain Pyricularia grisea

Radopholus similis parasites can be found in tropical climates, and therefore infect a lot of plants native to tropical areas. Common hosts that are economically important include: banana, coconut, coffee, ginger, sugarcane, ornamentals, and tea. Although R. similis has not been found to infect citrus plants, it is closely related to another variety of burrowing nematodes, Radopholus citrophilus, that is a prominent pathogen to citrus plants. As with a plethora of root diseases, the main symptoms of an infection from burrowing nematodes are stunted growth, rotting roots, and necrotic roots. They are migratory endoparasites, and therefore can cause many localized necrotic patches throughout an infected root system. R. similis signs are generally only seen in the roots, but secondary symptoms such as wilting, weakened structure, and stunting can be caused by the root damage these parasites inflict. In fact, infection via these parasites is referred to as “banana toppling disease” in bananas because the plants often topple due to severe root damage by these nematodes. Prominent symptoms can also vary by host. Black pepper plants often undergo yellowing due to lack of nutrient uptake, ginger plants often become stunted and develop lesions, and tea plants also exhibit stunting and leaf loss.	 banana and plantain Radopholus similis

Rosellinia bunodes is a facultative soil saprophyte capable of infecting a wide range of hosts, including native forest species and important agricultural crops like tea, citrus, coffee, yam, fig, rubber, cassava, banana, avocado, pepper, potato, cocoa, ginger, daffodils, yerba mate and poplar. New reports of susceptible hosts are also still occasionally reported. Outbreaks of black root rot in agricultural systems and the wild often occur in circular patches. Despite the pathogen's wide host range, disease signs and symptoms typically present in the same manner regardless of host species. Symptoms and disease progression have been likened to those caused by Phytophthora spp. and Armillaria spp.Importantly, R. bunodes is capable of infecting hosts at any age or developmental stage, from young seedlings to mature trees, and shows rapid root colonization abilities on susceptible hosts. The earliest symptoms are visible just seven days after inoculation in vitro as brown lesions on roots that progressively darken to black. Dark discoloration of vascular bundles is visible shortly thereafter.Once inside the vascular tissue, R. bunodes compromises xylem flow and transport of nutrients to aerial parts of the host resulting in chlorosis, wilting, dry die-back, leaf drop, and eventually host death. In controlled laboratory experiments, vegetative symptoms like chlorosis and wilting in two-year-old poplar (Populus deltoides) saplings were observed 14 days after inoculation, and field observations describe death of mature trees within 3–4 years. In 6-month-old coffee seedlings, 98% died within 10 days of inoculation with R. bunodes.Early signs of R. bunodes colonization include white, cottony growth on roots that also progressively darken with age. As mycelia grow, they form dense mats over roots and at the base of tree trunks that thicken into irregular knots and aggregate into rhizomorphs. Over time mycelia darken to form black, branching strands firmly attached to host roots; occasionally black dots are visible before this color change, indicating production of asexual and sexual survival structures. Darkened, mature hyphae can also develop and function as microsclerotia, however germination of microsclerotia has never been achieved in a laboratory setting nor observed in nature.	 banana and plantain Rosellinia bunodes

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 banana and plantain Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

BXW symptoms can be sorted into two domains: symptoms on the inflorescence and symptoms on the fruit. Symptoms on the fruit are usually used to distinguish BXW from alternative banana diseases. A bacterial ooze is excreted from the plant organs and this is a mandatory sign that BXW may be present.  Common symptoms on the fruit include internal discoloration and premature ripening of the fruit. A cross section of the BXW infected banana is characterized by the yellow- orange discoloration of the vascular bundles and dark brown tissue scarring. Symptoms on the inflorescence include a gradual wilting and yellowing of the leaves plus wilting of the bracts and shriveling of the male buds. Many factors may affect the combination of disease symptoms on show. These include the particular cultivar infected, how the disease has been transmitted and the current growing season.Symptoms normally appear within 3 weeks after infection, although the time taken to reach different stages of symptom expression may differ depending on the cultivar, plant growth stage, mode of disease transmission and environmental conditions. The symptoms expression were found to be faster in AAA-EA cooking varieties compared to ABB cultivars, in young plants compared to mature plants and during the wet season compared to the dry season. Infected plants show a progressive yellowing and wilting of the leaves, and uneven and premature ripening of the fruit. Male bud symptoms are firstly observed if an infection has occurred via the male inflorescence part, while leaf wilting symptoms are the first to be observed if the infection occurred via other plant parts such as roots, corm, leaf sheaths and leaves.BXW can sometimes be confused with Fusarium wilt – this differs to BXW as in contrast it causes yellowing on older leaves and does not cause abnormal fruit development. Fusarium wilt also causes a dark staining in the stalk whereas BXW does not	 banana and plantain Xanthomonas campestris pv. musacearum

BXW symptoms can be sorted into two domains: symptoms on the inflorescence and symptoms on the fruit. Symptoms on the fruit are usually used to distinguish BXW from alternative banana diseases. A bacterial ooze is excreted from the plant organs and this is a mandatory sign that BXW may be present.  Common symptoms on the fruit include internal discoloration and premature ripening of the fruit. A cross section of the BXW infected banana is characterized by the yellow- orange discoloration of the vascular bundles and dark brown tissue scarring. Symptoms on the inflorescence include a gradual wilting and yellowing of the leaves plus wilting of the bracts and shriveling of the male buds. Many factors may affect the combination of disease symptoms on show. These include the particular cultivar infected, how the disease has been transmitted and the current growing season.Symptoms normally appear within 3 weeks after infection, although the time taken to reach different stages of symptom expression may differ depending on the cultivar, plant growth stage, mode of disease transmission and environmental conditions. The symptoms expression were found to be faster in AAA-EA cooking varieties compared to ABB cultivars, in young plants compared to mature plants and during the wet season compared to the dry season. Infected plants show a progressive yellowing and wilting of the leaves, and uneven and premature ripening of the fruit. Male bud symptoms are firstly observed if an infection has occurred via the male inflorescence part, while leaf wilting symptoms are the first to be observed if the infection occurred via other plant parts such as roots, corm, leaf sheaths and leaves.BXW can sometimes be confused with Fusarium wilt – this differs to BXW as in contrast it causes yellowing on older leaves and does not cause abnormal fruit development. Fusarium wilt also causes a dark staining in the stalk whereas BXW does not	 banana and plantain Xanthomonas wilt (BXW)

Visible deficiency symptoms include:Chlorosis - yellowing of leaves; often interveinal; in some species, young leaves are the most affected, but in others both old and new leaves are chlorotic;Necrotic spots - death of leaf tissue on areas of chlorosis;Bronzing of leaves - chlorotic areas may turn bronze coloured;Rosetting of leaves - zinc-deficient dicotyledons often have shortened internodes, so leaves are clustered on the stem;Stunting of plants - small plants may occur as a result of reduced growth or because of reduced internode elongation;Dwarf leaves ('little leaf') - small leaves that often show chlorosis, necrotic spots or bronzing;Malformed leaves - leaves are often narrower or have wavy margins.	 banana and plantain Zinc deficiency (plant disorder)

Ascochyta sorghi infects grain crops such as sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), Sudan grass (Sorghum sudanense), and barley (Hordeum vulgare). It can also infect wild sorghum species.Symptoms of rough leaf spot can appear on leaf blades, leaf sheaths, peduncles, stalks, and glumes of susceptible species. On sorghum, symptoms are usually noted on leaf blades beginning as small red lesions. Lesions expand over time, becoming broadly-elliptical up to one inch in length. Spots usually develop a tan interior bordered by a dark red to purple color, but can remain a uniform dark color. The presence of black pycnidia exposed on the surface of the lesions give the leaf a rough, sandpapery feeling, hence the name “rough leaf spot.” Rough leaf spot can eventually lead to leaf senescence.	 barley Ascochyta sorghi

The disease is characterized by small, pale green spots or streaks which soon appear water-soaked.  The lesions expand and then appear as dry dead spots. The lesions elongate into linear streaks which may eventually extend the full length of the leaf.  Lesions rarely occur on the leaf sheath or culm.  In severe infections, a milky gray exudate may be squeezed from the cut end of leaf exhibiting symptoms.Brown spots on the margin of the cotyledon characterized plants	 barley Bacterial blight (barley)

Barley (Hordeum vulgare) is the only current known host for the virus. Other species of Hordeum have been experimentally inoculated and exhibited similar symptoms, but this has since been categorized as a different strain of disease called barley mild mosaic virus. When dealing with viruses, it is important to understand that symptoms are not reliable in diagnosing the specific virus. That being said, the signature symptom exhibited by the barley from the virus is a yellowing and mosaic flecking of the youngest leaves that often appears in the winter or early spring. Early on the plant leaves begin to show a pale green color, and over time the changes become more drastic with severe yellowing and mosaic patterns. In addition, leaf curl, stunting, and necrosis can all be observed.The symptoms are categorized as systemic, due to the spread of the disease throughout the plant. Once the virus enters the plant through the root cells via Polymyxa graminis it is able to multiply and spread throughout the plant. The symptoms arise due to the virus's ability to hack into the plant cells' machinery, which disrupts the normal cycle of the plant.	 barley Barley mosaic virus

Severe seedling infection can cause stunting and post-emergence death, but symptoms are not usually apparent until later, when long, chlorotic or yellow stripes on leaves and sheaths appear. Most leaves of a diseased plant are usually affected. Dark brown streaks develop later in the stripes, which eventually dry out and cause leaf shedding. Ears may not emerge or be deformed and discoloured. Grain production by infected plants is severely restricted.	 barley Barley stripe (barley)

Barley stripe mosaic virus has a narrow host range.  Horedum vulgare, commonly known as barley, is the main host for the virus.   BSMV can also infect wheat, Triticum aestivum.  Very rarely, BSMV can be seen in wild oats along with rye, maize, rice, sorghum, and millet.  In experimental conditions, spinach, beetroot, and tobacco were able to be infected. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) is a useful tool that can differentiate between similar strains of barley stripe mosaic virus and provide quantitative results.  ELISA works by using antibodies that are specific for a particular virus and the antibody-antigen interaction is mediated by a solid surface, which is usually a  polystyrene multiwell plate.Common symptoms of BSMV are yellow to white mottling, spotting and streaking, necrosis and severe mosaic on leaves.  Stunting is also very common.  Symptoms can vary based on virus strain, host plant and environmental conditions.  Symptoms are more prevalent in warm temperatures.    Plants grown from infected seeds are severely stunted or could even die before emergence in very susceptible hosts varieties.  Experimentally infected plants took 4–5 days for chlorotic symptoms to appear.Symptoms for BSMV are similar to barley stripe disease, a fungal disease caused by Pyrenophora graminea, though the two are caused by completely different pathogens and should be treated differently.	 barley Barley stripe mosaic virus

Triticum spp. (wheat) is the only host of B. g. f. sp. tritici. Signs on the foliage of wheat are white, powdery mycelium and conidia. As the disease progresses, the patches turn gray and small dark black or brown cleistothecia form in the mycelium mass. Symptoms progress from lower to upper leaves. Symptoms of powdery mildew are chlorotic areas surrounding the infected areas. The lower leaf surface corresponding to the mycelial mat will also show chlorosis. Lower leaves are commonly the most infected because of higher humidity around them.	 barley Blumeria graminis

BMV commonly infects Bromus inermis (see Bromus) and other grasses, can be found almost anywhere wheat is grown. It is also one of the few grass viruses that infects dicotyledonous plants, such as soybean; however, it primarily infects monocotyledonous plants, such as barley and others in the family Gramineae. The diagnostic species of this disease is maize, where seedlings show a variety of symptoms of this diseases, (dpvweb.net). Its propagation species is barley, which displays a mild mosaic. The assay species of this disease is Chenopodium Hybridum, (dpvweb.net). The symptoms of BMV are similar to most mosaic viruses. The symptoms consist of stunted growth, lesions, mosaic leaves, and death, (researchgate.net). These symptoms generally appear around 10 days after germination of the host plant. The symptoms of this disease affect maize and barley plants the most.In 2015, it was found that BMV had coinfected Triticale with Wheat Streak Mosaic Virus. This was the first report of coinfection between those two viruses and raises and the first report of BMV infecting Triticale. This raises questions on whether or not the two viruses share a common vector and how they interact with each other. They are currently researching further into this occurrence (K. Trzmiel, 2015).	 barley Brome mosaic virus

Initial symptoms appear as small brown spots on the crown roots, the lower sheath, and the subcrown internode.  This spots will elongate and coalesce and can cause an extensive brown discoloration at the crown, and the entire length of the subcrown internode.  Healthy root tissue is white to slightly cream-colored.	 barley Common root rot (barley)

Infected plants do not demonstrate symptoms until heading.  Kernels of infected plants are replaced by masses of dark brown smut spores. Smutted heads are hard and compact.  Infected plants may be stunted. Occasionally smut sori may also develop in leaf blades, where they appear as long streaks.	 barley Covered smut (barley)

Uredinia are linear, light orange, and occur mostly on the leaf blades but occasionally occur also on leaf sheaths, pedunclesand awns. Extensive chlorosis is often associated with the uredinia. Telia are mostly linear, black to dark brown, and are covered by the host epidermis. Although infection by crown rust does not usually kill whole plants, it does kill individual leaves of the plants. Necrotic areas of infected leaves reflect tissue death. The expansion of disease-dependent chlorosis and necrosis greatly reduces photosynthetic processes and the overall physiological functioning of the infected plant, which in turn reduces growth and crop yields. In addition, if plants are badly infected, they become more sensitive to drought conditions which can cause death.	 barley Crown rust (barley)

Tan spot is found primarily on wheat, but is also found to infect other cereals and grasses including triticale, barley, and rye, but are less frequently affected. Other grass species effected by the pathogen include Siberian wheat grass, sand bluestem, meadow brome, sheep fescue, June grass, little bluestem, green foxtail, needle and thread, and tall wheatgrass. While these are not necessarily agriculture crop hosts such as wheat, the pathogen is able to form and survive on many grass hosts, which can eventually venture into wheat fields. Other important grass susceptible hosts include smooth brome which can be found in pastures, as well as quack grass that is found in the environment and considered a weed in many agricultural crops. Lesions typically appear on both upper and lower leaf surfaces, and initially are tan to brown specks. Eventually, the tan to brown specks expand to larger irregular, oval, lens-shaped, ellipse, tan blotches with a yellow ring around them. The yellow ring is often referred to as a halo, yellow discoloration as chlorosis, and browning/death of leaf tissue as necrosis. The development of a dark brown to black spot in the center the lesion is characteristic of the disease. If warmer temperatures and moist conditions persist, spores known as conidia will move up plant as secondary inoculum and can also infect head/spikes. Symptoms on the head are indistinct, but can cause brownish glumes, and grains can have a reddish appearance similar to the pathogen Fusarium.	 barley Drechslera tritici-repentis

The disease is not apparent until heading, at which time, smutted heads emerge slightly earlier than healthy heads.  At first, each smutted head is covered by a delicate, paperlike, grayish membrane.  These membranes break shortly after the smutted heads have emerged and expose a dark brown to black, powdery mass of spores. This spores are easily dislodged, leaving only the bare rachis.	 barley False loose smut (barley)

The pathogen is capable of causing a variety of diseases: head blight or 'scab' on wheat (Triticum), barley (Hordeum), rice (Oryza), oats (Avena), and Gibberella stalk and ear rot disease on maize (Zea). Additionally, the fungus may infect other plant species without causing any disease symptoms.MaizeIn Gibberella stalk rot, the leaves on early-infected plants will turn a dull greyish-green, and the lower internodes will soften and turn a tan to dark-brown. A pink-red discoloration occurs within the stalks of diseased tissue. Shredding of the pith may reveal small, round, black perithecia on the stalks. Gibberella (red) ear rot can have a reddish mold that is often at the ear tip. The infection occurs by colonizing corn silk and symptoms first occur at the ear's apex. The white mycelium turns from pink to red over time, eventually covering the entire ear. Ears that become infected early don't fully develop the reddish mold near the ear tip, as the mold grows between the husks and ear.RiceGibberella zeae can turn affected seeds red and cause brown discoloration in certain areas on the seed or the entire seed surface. The surface of husks develop white spots that later become yellow and salmon or carmine. Infected grains are light, shrunken and brittle. Stem nodes begin to rot and wilt, eventually causing them to turn black and disintegrate when they are infected by the fungal pathogen.WheatBrown, dark purple-black necrotic lesions will form on the outer surface of the spikelets, what the wheat ear breaks up into. The lesions may be referred to as scabs, but this is not to be confused and associated with other scab diseases such as those with different host and pathogen. Head blight is visible before the spikes mature. Spikelets begin to appear water-soaked before the loss of chlorophyll, which gives a white straw color. Peduncles that are directly under the inflorescence can become discolored into a brown-purple color. Tissues of the inflorescence typically become blighted into a bleached tan appearance, and the grain within it atrophies. The awn will become deformed, twisted and curve in a downward direction.BarleyInfections on barley are not always visible in the field. Similar to wheat, infected spikelets show a browning or water-soaked appearance. The infected kernels display a tan to dark brown discoloration. During long periods of wetness, pink to salmon-orange spore masses can be seen on the infected spikelets and kernels. The cortical lesions of infected seeds become a reddish-brown in cool, moist soil. Warm soil can cause head blight to occur after emergence, and crown and basal culm rot can be observed in later plant development.	 barley Fusarium graminearum

M. nivale can infect all cool-season turf grass species.  Annual bluegrass (Poa annua), perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne) and creeping bentgrass (Agrostis stolonifera) are more susceptible. In the fall, M.nivale infection begins as small, orange to red-brown spots, circular and only a few centimeters in diameter.  During the winter and into the spring seasons, well-defined, clustered, circular patches 10-20 cm in diameter, of necrotic leaf tissues form on mown turf.  Microdochium nivale is mostly seen on grasses mown at heights of three inches or greater. On taller grass, patches often lack a circular pattern that is seen in shorter mown grass. Pink snow mold patches usually follow drainage patterns since conidia spores are readily dislodged and transported by rainfall and water flowage.  Under prolonged cool and wet conditions, white-pink mycelium can be observed along the circumference of diseased patches.	 barley Fusarium patch

Gaeumannomyces tritici causes disease in the roots, crown, and stem base of wheat, barley, rye, along with several grasses such as Bromegrass, Quackgrass, and Bentgrass. Oats are the only cereal crops that are able to have resistance being naturally resistant. The majority of infected plants can withstand mild root infection and appear symptomless. There are also cases where entire fields can be affected, but typically premature death occurs in circular patches in the field. Infected plants are identifiable through stunting, mild chlorosis (yellowing), and a decreased number of tillers, which are additional stems that develop of the main shoot of the plant. When tillers die due to disease they are white, creating a "white-head" that can be described as a sterile environment that isn’t able to germinate. Signs include perithecia that are shown in infected root and stem tissues which are black in color. This blackening of the crown and stem base allow the plant to be easily pulled from the soil with no attached root system. Given its name "Take-all", it has been known to destroy entire stands of wheat.	 barley Gaeumannomyces graminis var tritici

The pathogen is capable of causing a variety of diseases: head blight or 'scab' on wheat (Triticum), barley (Hordeum), rice (Oryza), oats (Avena), and Gibberella stalk and ear rot disease on maize (Zea). Additionally, the fungus may infect other plant species without causing any disease symptoms.MaizeIn Gibberella stalk rot, the leaves on early-infected plants will turn a dull greyish-green, and the lower internodes will soften and turn a tan to dark-brown. A pink-red discoloration occurs within the stalks of diseased tissue. Shredding of the pith may reveal small, round, black perithecia on the stalks. Gibberella (red) ear rot can have a reddish mold that is often at the ear tip. The infection occurs by colonizing corn silk and symptoms first occur at the ear's apex. The white mycelium turns from pink to red over time, eventually covering the entire ear. Ears that become infected early don't fully develop the reddish mold near the ear tip, as the mold grows between the husks and ear.RiceGibberella zeae can turn affected seeds red and cause brown discoloration in certain areas on the seed or the entire seed surface. The surface of husks develop white spots that later become yellow and salmon or carmine. Infected grains are light, shrunken and brittle. Stem nodes begin to rot and wilt, eventually causing them to turn black and disintegrate when they are infected by the fungal pathogen.WheatBrown, dark purple-black necrotic lesions will form on the outer surface of the spikelets, what the wheat ear breaks up into. The lesions may be referred to as scabs, but this is not to be confused and associated with other scab diseases such as those with different host and pathogen. Head blight is visible before the spikes mature. Spikelets begin to appear water-soaked before the loss of chlorophyll, which gives a white straw color. Peduncles that are directly under the inflorescence can become discolored into a brown-purple color. Tissues of the inflorescence typically become blighted into a bleached tan appearance, and the grain within it atrophies. The awn will become deformed, twisted and curve in a downward direction.BarleyInfections on barley are not always visible in the field. Similar to wheat, infected spikelets show a browning or water-soaked appearance. The infected kernels display a tan to dark brown discoloration. During long periods of wetness, pink to salmon-orange spore masses can be seen on the infected spikelets and kernels. The cortical lesions of infected seeds become a reddish-brown in cool, moist soil. Warm soil can cause head blight to occur after emergence, and crown and basal culm rot can be observed in later plant development.	 barley Gibberella zeae

G. graminicola is an anamorphic fungus which is identified as Colletotrichum graminicola in the teleomorphic phase. It is the anamorphic phase that causes anthracnose in many cereal species. While the main host of this disease is maize, it can also affect other cereals and grasses, such as sorghum, ryegrass, bluegrass, barley, wheat, and some cultivars of fescue where the production of fruiting bodies cause symptoms to appear in the host plant.  Corn anthracnose leaf blight is the most common stalk disease in maize and occurs most frequently in reduced-till or no-till fields.Symptoms can vary depending on which part of the growing season the corn is in.Early in the growing season, the main symptom is foliar leaf blight. This often appears as 1 inch (25 mm) long and 1⁄2 inch (13 mm) wide oval or spindle-shaped water-soaked lesions on the lower leaves of the plant. This tissue can become necrotic and has the potential to spread throughout the entire leaf, causing it to yellow and die. They are light brown in color, with margins that appear dark brown or purple. If this persists, black fruiting bodies will appear in the center of the lesion.The mid-season symptoms appear several weeks after corn produces tassels, when there will be a top die-back if the infection has spread throughout many parts of the plant. In this dieback, the entire plant will become necrotic and die, beginning at the tassel and working its way down the entire stalk to the lowest leaves.Late in the growing season, another major symptom of this disease appears: stalk rot. It can first be seen as a reflective black stripe on the internodes of the stalk, and can make the stalk soft, causing the plants to easily lodge in heavy precipitation or a wind event.	 barley Glomerella graminicola

Tan spot is found primarily on wheat, but is also found to infect other cereals and grasses including triticale, barley, and rye, but are less frequently affected. Other grass species effected by the pathogen include Siberian wheat grass, sand bluestem, meadow brome, sheep fescue, June grass, little bluestem, green foxtail, needle and thread, and tall wheatgrass. While these are not necessarily agriculture crop hosts such as wheat, the pathogen is able to form and survive on many grass hosts, which can eventually venture into wheat fields. Other important grass susceptible hosts include smooth brome which can be found in pastures, as well as quack grass that is found in the environment and considered a weed in many agricultural crops. Lesions typically appear on both upper and lower leaf surfaces, and initially are tan to brown specks. Eventually, the tan to brown specks expand to larger irregular, oval, lens-shaped, ellipse, tan blotches with a yellow ring around them. The yellow ring is often referred to as a halo, yellow discoloration as chlorosis, and browning/death of leaf tissue as necrosis. The development of a dark brown to black spot in the center the lesion is characteristic of the disease. If warmer temperatures and moist conditions persist, spores known as conidia will move up plant as secondary inoculum and can also infect head/spikes. Symptoms on the head are indistinct, but can cause brownish glumes, and grains can have a reddish appearance similar to the pathogen Fusarium.	 barley Helminthosporium tritici-repentis

Pustules of leaf rust are small and circular, producing a mass of orange-brown powdery spores.  They appear on the leaf sheaths and predominantly on the upper leaf surfaces.  Heavily infected leaves die prematurely.	 barley Leaf rust (barley)

The major symptom of loose smut is the "smutted" grain heads, which contain masses of black or brown spores where the grain would normally be. The spores completely replace the grain head so that there is no grain to be harvested on infected plants. It may be possible to identify infected plants in the field before they reach the flowering stage by looking for plants which are taller and more mature than the rest of the field. The fungus causes infected plants to grow slightly taller and mature slightly sooner than the uninfected plants in the field. Since it must infect through the open florets, this gives the fungus a competitive advantage by allowing it to fall down to the healthy plants and ensuring that the fungus has a little extra time to produce and disperse spores before the florets of the healthy plants open.Ustilago nuda infects barley 'Hordeum vulgare L.' but there are many strains of Ustilago which infect many different cereal crops in a similar manner. Ustilago tritici, for example, is loose smut of wheat.	 barley Loose smut (barley)

Pyrenophora teres is a plant pathogen that causes net blotch on barley (Hordeum vulgare). It is a disease that is distributed worldwide, and can be found in all regions where barley is grown. Two economically significant forms of the pathogen exist, P. teres f. teres and P. teres f. maculata, which give rise to net form of net blotch and spot form of net blotch, respectively. The distinction comes not from morphology, which is essentially the same in each, but rather by the differing manifestation of symptoms upon the infection of a host. Both forms induce chlorosis and necrosis, but the presentation of these symptoms, especially the shape and spread of necrotic lesions, is how they are distinguished.The symptoms of both forms of P. teres are similar in that they begin with pin-sized brown necrotic spots on the lamia and sheath of the leaves (the most common infection court), and sometimes on the flowers and grains. Over time, these lesions increase in size, eventually diverging in shape. The legions caused by P. teres f. teres, causal agent of the net form of net blotch, elongate and move laterally across the leaf surface, forming characteristic dark-brown streaks that merge in order to create the net-like pattern for which the form is named. These lesions continue to extend as they age, the margins of which are often surrounded by a chlorotic halo.Barley plants infected by P. teres f. maculata, causal agent of the spot form of net blotch, do not exhibit net-like patterns of necrosis. Instead, the initial pin-point dots grow in both height and width, forming larger circular or elliptical spots, generally 3–6 mm in diameter. As these spots increase in size, they become surrounded by a chlorotic zone which tends to vary in width. In severe cases, these necrotic and chlorotic zones can extend to such a width that they combine and destroy the entire leaf. With spot form of net blotch, symptoms have been observed to appear on a continuum based upon the strength of the resistance of the variety: those that are completely resistant have lesions that do not grow past the initial pin-point size; as the resistance decreases, the size of the lesions increase. The biological basis of this difference originates from the way in which each form infects; P. teres f. maculata grows more slowly and thus the necrosis remains relatively localized at initial infection zone, whereas P. teres f. teres grows more quickly and extensively at the sub-epidermal level, extending the necrosis further from the initial infection zone.	 barley Net blotch (barley)

Triticum spp. (wheat) is the only host of B. g. f. sp. tritici. Signs on the foliage of wheat are white, powdery mycelium and conidia. As the disease progresses, the patches turn gray and small dark black or brown cleistothecia form in the mycelium mass. Symptoms progress from lower to upper leaves. Symptoms of powdery mildew are chlorotic areas surrounding the infected areas. The lower leaf surface corresponding to the mycelial mat will also show chlorosis. Lower leaves are commonly the most infected because of higher humidity around them.	 barley Oidium monilioides

At first, powdery mildew can be observed as small greyish patches of fluffy fungal growth (mycelium) on the upper surface of the lower leaves. These spots resemble small cushions of white powder. Leaf tissue on the opposite side of an infected leaf turns pale green to yellow.  The fungus only infects the epidermal layer and can be easily scraped off with a fingernail. Infections can also occur on the leaf sheaths and ears.  Leaves remain green and active for some time following infection, then gradually become chlorotic and die off.  As the disease progresses, the mycelium often becomes dotted with minute black points (cleistothecia), which are the sexual fruiting bodies of the fungus.The fungus does not kill the host plant as it requires the hosts' water and nutrients to grow. It settles on foliage and gradually slows the host growth process. Fruits, vegetables and flowers do not reach maturity if they become infected by powdery mildew. Flowers bloom is delayed or aborted. Vegetable and fruit crop yield is significantly lowered or the produce is of reduced quality.	 barley Powdery midlew (barley)

Root lesion nematodes infect a great variety of hosts. Pratylenchus penetrans alone has over 350 host plants. They include agricultural crops such as soybeans, potatoes, corn, bananas, and wheat. The genus is found most often in corn. Signs of disease are similar in most plants and generally include necrotic lesions of the roots. The lesions can also be entrances for pathogenic bacteria and fungi, which produce secondary infections. Above ground the plant becomes stunted, chlorotic, and wilted, and it often dies. A crop field may be patchy as plants wither and die. Root lesion nematodes can cause significant yield losses.	 barley Pratylenchus

Uredinia are linear, light orange, and occur mostly on the leaf blades but occasionally occur also on leaf sheaths, pedunclesand awns. Extensive chlorosis is often associated with the uredinia. Telia are mostly linear, black to dark brown, and are covered by the host epidermis. Although infection by crown rust does not usually kill whole plants, it does kill individual leaves of the plants. Necrotic areas of infected leaves reflect tissue death. The expansion of disease-dependent chlorosis and necrosis greatly reduces photosynthetic processes and the overall physiological functioning of the infected plant, which in turn reduces growth and crop yields. In addition, if plants are badly infected, they become more sensitive to drought conditions which can cause death.	 barley Puccinia coronata var. hordei

Infections produce linear, orange-yellow pustules appear on leaves and/or heads.  As the disease progresses, pustules coalesce to form long stripes between leaf veins.  On susceptible cultivars, entire leaf blades may be covered with pustules. The black spore stage develops as linear black pustules covered by the leaf epidermis.  	 barley Puccinia striiformis f. sp. hordei

Severe seedling infection can cause stunting and post-emergence death, but symptoms are not usually apparent until later, when long, chlorotic or yellow stripes on leaves and sheaths appear. Most leaves of a diseased plant are usually affected. Dark brown streaks develop later in the stripes, which eventually dry out and cause leaf shedding. Ears may not emerge or be deformed and discoloured. Grain production by infected plants is severely restricted.	 barley Pyrenophora graminea

Pyrenophora teres is a plant pathogen that causes net blotch on barley (Hordeum vulgare). It is a disease that is distributed worldwide, and can be found in all regions where barley is grown. Two economically significant forms of the pathogen exist, P. teres f. teres and P. teres f. maculata, which give rise to net form of net blotch and spot form of net blotch, respectively. The distinction comes not from morphology, which is essentially the same in each, but rather by the differing manifestation of symptoms upon the infection of a host. Both forms induce chlorosis and necrosis, but the presentation of these symptoms, especially the shape and spread of necrotic lesions, is how they are distinguished.The symptoms of both forms of P. teres are similar in that they begin with pin-sized brown necrotic spots on the lamia and sheath of the leaves (the most common infection court), and sometimes on the flowers and grains. Over time, these lesions increase in size, eventually diverging in shape. The legions caused by P. teres f. teres, causal agent of the net form of net blotch, elongate and move laterally across the leaf surface, forming characteristic dark-brown streaks that merge in order to create the net-like pattern for which the form is named. These lesions continue to extend as they age, the margins of which are often surrounded by a chlorotic halo.Barley plants infected by P. teres f. maculata, causal agent of the spot form of net blotch, do not exhibit net-like patterns of necrosis. Instead, the initial pin-point dots grow in both height and width, forming larger circular or elliptical spots, generally 3–6 mm in diameter. As these spots increase in size, they become surrounded by a chlorotic zone which tends to vary in width. In severe cases, these necrotic and chlorotic zones can extend to such a width that they combine and destroy the entire leaf. With spot form of net blotch, symptoms have been observed to appear on a continuum based upon the strength of the resistance of the variety: those that are completely resistant have lesions that do not grow past the initial pin-point size; as the resistance decreases, the size of the lesions increase. The biological basis of this difference originates from the way in which each form infects; P. teres f. maculata grows more slowly and thus the necrosis remains relatively localized at initial infection zone, whereas P. teres f. teres grows more quickly and extensively at the sub-epidermal level, extending the necrosis further from the initial infection zone.	 barley Pyrenophora teres

Tan spot is found primarily on wheat, but is also found to infect other cereals and grasses including triticale, barley, and rye, but are less frequently affected. Other grass species effected by the pathogen include Siberian wheat grass, sand bluestem, meadow brome, sheep fescue, June grass, little bluestem, green foxtail, needle and thread, and tall wheatgrass. While these are not necessarily agriculture crop hosts such as wheat, the pathogen is able to form and survive on many grass hosts, which can eventually venture into wheat fields. Other important grass susceptible hosts include smooth brome which can be found in pastures, as well as quack grass that is found in the environment and considered a weed in many agricultural crops. Lesions typically appear on both upper and lower leaf surfaces, and initially are tan to brown specks. Eventually, the tan to brown specks expand to larger irregular, oval, lens-shaped, ellipse, tan blotches with a yellow ring around them. The yellow ring is often referred to as a halo, yellow discoloration as chlorosis, and browning/death of leaf tissue as necrosis. The development of a dark brown to black spot in the center the lesion is characteristic of the disease. If warmer temperatures and moist conditions persist, spores known as conidia will move up plant as secondary inoculum and can also infect head/spikes. Symptoms on the head are indistinct, but can cause brownish glumes, and grains can have a reddish appearance similar to the pathogen Fusarium.	 barley Pyrenophora trichostoma

Tan spot is found primarily on wheat, but is also found to infect other cereals and grasses including triticale, barley, and rye, but are less frequently affected. Other grass species effected by the pathogen include Siberian wheat grass, sand bluestem, meadow brome, sheep fescue, June grass, little bluestem, green foxtail, needle and thread, and tall wheatgrass. While these are not necessarily agriculture crop hosts such as wheat, the pathogen is able to form and survive on many grass hosts, which can eventually venture into wheat fields. Other important grass susceptible hosts include smooth brome which can be found in pastures, as well as quack grass that is found in the environment and considered a weed in many agricultural crops. Lesions typically appear on both upper and lower leaf surfaces, and initially are tan to brown specks. Eventually, the tan to brown specks expand to larger irregular, oval, lens-shaped, ellipse, tan blotches with a yellow ring around them. The yellow ring is often referred to as a halo, yellow discoloration as chlorosis, and browning/death of leaf tissue as necrosis. The development of a dark brown to black spot in the center the lesion is characteristic of the disease. If warmer temperatures and moist conditions persist, spores known as conidia will move up plant as secondary inoculum and can also infect head/spikes. Symptoms on the head are indistinct, but can cause brownish glumes, and grains can have a reddish appearance similar to the pathogen Fusarium.	 barley Pyrenophora tritici-repentis

Pythium graminicola infects a wide range of hosts, including: bent grass, turmeric, cotton, barley, wheat, rice, beans, peas, and sugarcane. In particular Pythium graminicola is an important pathogen of graminaceous plants. As with many Pythium diseases, the most common symptom of Pythium graminicola is root/seed rot, which can then cause damping off. However, Pythium graminicola can also infect above ground tissue causing stalk rot in maize, foot rot of beans, leaf blight of grasses and feeder root necrosis in rice, sugarcane and maize. Diagnosis of Pythium graminicola can be made through observation of the above symptoms and the presence of oomycete structures, such as sporangia.	 barley Pythium graminicola

Symptoms are most visible in the first fruiting year and are most apparent during the last couple of weeks before harvest.> Early symptoms will include reduced vigor and a decrease in the ability to survive high water conditions. Plants may experience lodging when water demand is high. Infected plants may continue to grow but will show aboveground symptoms including stunting, decreased fruit size, and numerous dead older leaves. Belowground symptoms include the deterioration of roots. Infected plants may have feeder and main roots that are smaller and covered in black lesions. Feeder roots will appear water soaked. In the early stages of infection, the core of the root will appear white while the exterior begins to show black lesions. In severely affected roots, both the core and the outer tissue of the root will be black [3]. Stained feeder roots may reveal masses of moniliform cells of R. fragariae. Characteristics of R. fragariae include hyphal branching pattern, dolipore septa, and moniliform resting cells. The binucleated hyphae directly penetrate the root.	 barley Rhizoctonia cerealis

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 barley Rhizoctonia solani

Rice plants are susceptible to infection starting at the seedling age. The only known means of virus transmission is via planthoppers. Typical symptoms of rice stripe virus infection include pale and discontinuous yellow stripes, blotches, and dead tissue streaks on the leaves. Severe infections cause grey necrotic streaks and result in the death of the plant.	 barley Rice stripe virus

Scald is a foliar disease of barley affecting the leaves and sheaths of the plant; however, lesions may also occur oncoleoptiles, glumes, floral bracts and awns.  Initial symptoms are oval, water-soaked, grayish-green spots, 1.0-1.5 cm long.As the disease develops, the centers of the lesions dry and bleach, becoming light gray, tan, or white with a dark brownmargin. The lesions are not delimited by the leaf veins and often coalesce.	 barley Scald (barley)

Typhula spp. impacts cool season turfgrass that experiences extended periods of snow cover. These species of hosts can include creeping bentgrass, annual ryegrass, and perennial ryegrass. Some of its more common hosts include fine fescue, tall fescue, and Kentucky bluegrass. Symptoms of the pathogen often manifest in all species the same way; as circular patches 6 inches to a foot in diameter of dead or damaged turfgrass. Sometimes patches can be as large as three feet and can merge into other patches. These “scars” in the turf can remain until May or early June. Dead plant tissue becomes matted and blades become grayish and brittle after drying. Signs of the disease can include visible mycelium on turf after snow clears and dark brown or black sclerotia structures embedded in dead plant tissue.	 barley Snow mold

Infections appear as dark, chocolate-colored blotches. The spots merge, eventually forming irregular necrotic patches on the leaves. Leaf spots may be surrounded by a zone of yellow leaf tissue of varying width.  Spot may also appear on the leaf sheaths, necks and heads of the plant. Heavily infected leaves dry up completely, and infections on the flag leaf during kernel filling are the most serious.	 barley Spot blotch (barley)

Infections produce linear, orange-yellow pustules appear on leaves and/or heads.  As the disease progresses, pustules coalesce to form long stripes between leaf veins.  On susceptible cultivars, entire leaf blades may be covered with pustules. The black spore stage develops as linear black pustules covered by the leaf epidermis.  	 barley Stripe rust (barley)

Gaeumannomyces tritici causes disease in the roots, crown, and stem base of wheat, barley, rye, along with several grasses such as Bromegrass, Quackgrass, and Bentgrass. Oats are the only cereal crops that are able to have resistance being naturally resistant. The majority of infected plants can withstand mild root infection and appear symptomless. There are also cases where entire fields can be affected, but typically premature death occurs in circular patches in the field. Infected plants are identifiable through stunting, mild chlorosis (yellowing), and a decreased number of tillers, which are additional stems that develop of the main shoot of the plant. When tillers die due to disease they are white, creating a "white-head" that can be described as a sterile environment that isn’t able to germinate. Signs include perithecia that are shown in infected root and stem tissues which are black in color. This blackening of the crown and stem base allow the plant to be easily pulled from the soil with no attached root system. Given its name "Take-all", it has been known to destroy entire stands of wheat.	 barley Take-all

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 barley Thanatephorus cucumeris

Typhula blight is a major problem with cool season turfgrasses during winter months. These grasses include bentgrass, annual bluegrass, perennial ryegrass, fine fescue, and kentucky bluegrass. Typhula blight is also commonly referred to as gray snow mold due to the gray colored patches found after snow has melted. Gray snow mold affects all of its hosts in the same way. After the snow has melted, gray to grayish white patches of mycelium, six to twelve inches in diameter, can be found. Within the patches, diseased grass blades often reveal either rusty or reddish brown colored sclerotia up to five millimeters in diameter. Gray snow mold can cause thinning and possibly death of the infected host.	 barley Typhula blight

Typhula incarnata is, along with Typhula ishikariensis, the causal agent of gray snow mold (also known as speckled snow mold or Typhula blight).  This plant pathogen destroys cool season turfgrasses grown in areas with extended periods of snowcover.  “Turfgrass hosts include but are not limited to: annual bluegrass, colonial bentgrass, creeping bentgrass, fine-leaf fescues, Kentucky bluegrass, perennial ryegrass, and tall fescue”.  Signs of the pathogen can be observed in the spring as circular grayish-brown patches, about 15 cm in diameter, of mycelium.  T. incarnata can be distinguished from T. ishkikariensis by its sclerotia.  T. incarnata has reddish-brown sclerotia with a diameter of 1.5–3 mm, whereas T. iskikariensis has black sclerotia with a diameter of 0.5-1.5 mm.	 barley Typhula incarnata

Infected plants do not demonstrate symptoms until heading.  Kernels of infected plants are replaced by masses of dark brown smut spores. Smutted heads are hard and compact.  Infected plants may be stunted. Occasionally smut sori may also develop in leaf blades, where they appear as long streaks.	 barley Ustilago hordei

The disease is not apparent until heading, at which time, smutted heads emerge slightly earlier than healthy heads.  At first, each smutted head is covered by a delicate, paperlike, grayish membrane.  These membranes break shortly after the smutted heads have emerged and expose a dark brown to black, powdery mass of spores. This spores are easily dislodged, leaving only the bare rachis.	 barley Ustilago nigra

The major symptom of loose smut is the "smutted" grain heads, which contain masses of black or brown spores where the grain would normally be. The spores completely replace the grain head so that there is no grain to be harvested on infected plants. It may be possible to identify infected plants in the field before they reach the flowering stage by looking for plants which are taller and more mature than the rest of the field. The fungus causes infected plants to grow slightly taller and mature slightly sooner than the uninfected plants in the field. Since it must infect through the open florets, this gives the fungus a competitive advantage by allowing it to fall down to the healthy plants and ensuring that the fungus has a little extra time to produce and disperse spores before the florets of the healthy plants open.Ustilago nuda infects barley 'Hordeum vulgare L.' but there are many strains of Ustilago which infect many different cereal crops in a similar manner. Ustilago tritici, for example, is loose smut of wheat.	 barley Ustilago nuda

There are many strains of Verticillium dahliae which are categorized into vegetative compatibility groups (VCG). These groups comprise strains that are able to exchange genetic material via anastomosis. Each VCG affects a few or only one host and the virulence of the pathogen varies by host. While individual V. dahliae strains are relatively host specific, as a species it has a wide range.Verticillium dahliae has a very wide host range, affecting over 300 plant species. Some susceptible crops include Brussels sprouts, cabbage, eggplant, cucumbers, mint, pepper, potatoes, pumpkin, spinach, tomato, watermelon, honeydew, and cantaloupe. Of these, tomato, potato, and eggplant have resistant or tolerant varieties.Symptoms of this disease are seen throughout the plant. Leaves may have abnormal coloration, necrotic areas, wilt, and/or fall off the plant. The stem may have discolored vascular tissue, exhibit rosetting (shortened internodes of the plant caused by reduced growth, resulting in a rosette-like appearance), and/or be stunted. Early senescence and dieback may also occur.Microsclerotia can be seen under a lens as small black structures in the vasculature of living and dead plants. This feature can be used to distinguish V. dahliae from V. albo-atrum, the other verticillium wilt pathogen.	 barley Verticillium dahliae

There are two main types of strains of WDV, which can be distinguished by their host preference for either wheat (Triticum aestivum) or barley (Hordeum vulgare). WDV can cause a range of symptoms in their host plant that are both localized and systemic. For example, the growth of the plant can be stunted, appearing bush-like. The plant can have fewer tillers (stems produced by grass) and leaves than normally observed. Small parts of the leaf may also be affected by chlorosis, which can eventually take over the entire leaf. The number of spikes on the plant may be reduced or existing ones may be stunted. WDV is transmitted by leafhoppers, which suck phloem sap from the vegetative sections of wheat with their mouthparts, passing on the virus. This is a circulative, non-propagative transmission process.A study done by the Department of Virology in Prague-Ruzyně, Czech Republic, observed the reaction of selected winter wheat varieties to autumnal infection with WDV. Results were measured by examining the reduction in height of the plant and the grain yield. The Ludwig wheat, a very susceptible variety, has a reduction in height between 78–97%. They also had a reduction of grain yield, which was nearly 100%. Other less susceptible wheat varieties, like Banquet, still had a height reduction of about 70%, with a grain yield reduction of about 36%. Each wheat variety had several symptoms including necrotic spots and dying leaves. This study showed that large impacts that WDV can have on the growth of wheat during the winter in terms of height and overall yield.	 barley Wheat dwarf virus

The primary host for Soil-borne wheat mosaic virus is the wheat plant, Triticum aestivum, although the virus can also affect rye, barley, and triticale.  Symptoms of the disease are primarily found on the leaves.  These symptoms include chlorotic leaf mottling or leaf mosaic, rosetting, stunting, streaking, and blotching of leaves. The mosaic and mottling symptoms may range from mild green to yellow, and leaves may sometimes also have dashes, parallel streaks, reddish streaking, and necrosis at the tips. Symptoms usually occur around the same time each year. This time is usually early spring, although in warmer climates it is possible that symptoms can emerge in late fall or early winter. Diseased fields are often uneven in appearance of symptoms especially in low wet areas.   This is because the drainage pattern of water on the field is used by the virus to infect plants.	 barley Wheat soil-borne mosaic virus

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 beet Alternaria alternata

There are a variety of hosts including but not limited to; banana, beans, cabbage, carrot, cassava, coffee, corn, cotton, onion, other crucifers, pepper, potato, sweet potato and tomato. Pandanus conoideus and karuka (Pandanus julianettii) get bacterial soft rot and necrosis on the leaves from Pectobacterium carotovorum subsp. carotovorum. For each host there are different symptoms displayed. Most symptoms are along the lines of watery and soft decay of the tissue. Cabbage and crucifers' symptoms start where the tissue makes contact with the soil. Often there is a change in color and in the case of a carrot, the whole taproot can be decayed leaving just the epidermis. Sweet potatoes show clear lesions that grow rapidly leaving a recognizable watery and soft, oozy tissue where only the peel remains intact.Potatoes experience a cream to tan colored tuber that becomes very soft and watery. A characteristic black border separates the diseased area and the healthy tissue. Only when the secondary organism invades the infected tissue does that decay become slimy with a foul odor. Like the carrot, the whole tuber can be consumed leaving just the epidermis in the soil. The foliage becomes weak and chlorotic with upward turned leaves and lesions on the stem. The stem also rots and becomes mushy with its colorless or brown lesions.	 beet Bacterial soft rot

Plants that are infected will tend to display early symptoms within 5 days. The BCTV causes many symptoms including:Vein swelling (the earliest and most common symptom)Leaf curlingYellowing of leaves with purple veinsNecrosis and hyperplasia of the phloemFruit deformationPremature fruit ripeningReduced fruit quality and yieldStuntingDeath of young seedlings	 beet Beet curly top virus

BNYVV Infects all of the following species: Beta vulgaris (beetroot), Beta vulgaris var. cicla, Beta vulgaris var. rubra, Beta vulgaris var. saccharifera (sugarbeet), Chamomilla recutita (common chamomile), Chenopodium (Goosefoot), Chenopodium quinoa (quinoa), Cichorium intybus (chicory), Cirsium arvense (creeping thistle), Convolvulus arvensis (bindweed), Datura stramonium (jimsonweed), Descurainia sophia (flixweed), Heliotropium europaeum (common heliotrope), Nicotiana tabacum (tobacco), Plantago major (broad-leaved plantain), Raphanus raphanistrum (wild radish), Spinacia oleracea (spinach), Tetragonia tetragonioides (New Zealand spinach), Tribulus terrestris (puncture vine), Veronica hederifolia and Xanthium strumarium (common cocklebur). The plants that suffer infections from BNYVV in the most abundance are all the subspecies of Beta Vulgaris, specifically Beta vulgaris var. saccharifera (sugar beet), and Spinacia oleracea (spinach).In Beta vulgaria var. saccharifera (sugar beet), symptoms are most often local in the roots and leaves, but can be found systemically on rare occasions. Symptoms are seen differently depending on when the infection occurs in the plant. In early life stages and early growing season, a diseases called rhizomania is caused as a result of the virus. Rhizomania is the growth of fine, hairy secondary roots which are dead and thus prevent the proper uptake of water. Because of rhizomania, the sugar beet is subject to severe infection where the entire plant is stunted, leaves are wilted, and death can occur. Due to the severity of an early onset infection, the most common symptom of BNYVV, yellow mosaic on the leaves, is rarely seen as the plant often dies before the virus can spread. For midseason and less severe infections, rhizomania results in the storage root rotting and constricting, causing the root to swell near the crown. In this case, rhizomania doesn't cause the plant to die which allows the virus is able to make its way to the leaves resulting in yellow-pale discoloration, proliferation, and upright growth. In late season infections, both roots and leaves appear asymptomatic.Spinacia oleracea (spinach) can also be infected by the same strand of BNYVV. For this plant, complete infection of the plant can occur in as little as four weeks causing yellow-green vein clearing on young leaves, stiff and/or crinkled leaves, necrosis, stunting, wilting, and possibly death. Unlike the sugar beet plant, systemic infection is almost always seen in spinach due to easy transmission through the plants roots.	 beet Beet necrotic yellow vein virus

Hosts of Cercospora beticola include sugar beets (Beta vulgaris), swiss chard (Beta vulgaris L. subsp. cicla) and other leafy greens. Symptoms include the random distribution of spots with brownish red rings which eventually cause leaf collapse. Older leaves will have spots of larger diameters as rings grow outward. Conidia are not observable by the unaided eye	 beet Cercospora beticola

This virus was first characterized in cucumbers (Cucumis sativus) showing mosaic symptoms in 1934, hence the name Cucumber mosaic. Since then, it has been found to infect a great variety of other plants. These include other vegetables such as squash, melons, peppers, eggplants, tomatoes, beans, carrots, celery, lettuce, spinach, beets, many ornamentals and bedding plants, such as Narcissus, and various weeds. Its presence has been confirmed on every continent of the world, including Antarctica.Symptoms seen with this virus include leaf mosaic or mottling (Fig. 1), yellowing, ringspots, stunting, and leaf, flower and fruit distortion. CMV also induces a type of symptom on leaves known as the "shoestring" effect on many host species. This effect causes young leaves to appear narrow and the entire plant to be stunted.Specifically, CMV can cause cucumbers to turn pale and bumpy. The leaves of these plants turn mosaic and their rugosity is often changed, making leaves wrinkled and misshapen. Growth of these plants is usually also stunted and produces few flowers. Often, cucumber fruits are oddly shaped, appear gray, and tested bitter. These appearances lead to them being referred to as "white pickles".Tomato plants are usually stunted and have poorly shaped leaves, or "fernleaf", when infected by CMV. Also certain strains of CMV can cause partial or total crop loss. CMV in peppers causes slightly different symptoms than the previously mentioned. Pepper plants often have severe foliar damage, shown as mosaic and necrotic rings. Often the peppers themselves are misshapen and contain chlorotic rings and spots. In celery, CMV causes streaking and spotting and can be often confused with symptoms of the celery mosaic virus. Symptoms of CMV in lettuce, such as chlorosis, plant stunting and often do not properly head, can be very similar to those of lettuce mosaic virus.CMV has also been identified in a lesser extent to a number of plant species. It is found to be a minor virus infecting Allium crops. The virus infection causes extensive malformation on garlic plants, and mild malformation to severe necrotic streaks on onion leaves. The severe damages on garlic plants and difficulty of aphids transmission of garlic isolate, were possible causal for the rare CMV on garlic. Genetically, the two onion isolates from Turkey (CMV-14.3Po and CMV-15.5Po) are highly similar to others isolated from various plant species in Mediterranean, European, and East Asian countries. CMV was also detected on American beautyberry, an important wildlife and pollinator food source plant native to North America.In plant tissue this virus makes characteristic viral inclusion bodies which can be diagnostic. They are hexagonal in shape (Fig. 2) and stain both in a protein stain and a nucleic acid stain. The inclusions can also be rhomboidal, may appear hollow (Fig. 2) and can form larger aggregates. The inclusions are not uniformly distributed and can be found in epidermal (Fig. 2), mesophyll, and stomatal cells. These inclusions are made up of virus particles.			 beet Cucumber mosaic virus

In addition to potatoes, potato rot nematodes have a wide range of over 100 species of hosts from numerous families. Some of these include alfalfa, beets, carrots, garlic, hops, mint, parsnips, peanuts, rhubarb, tomatoes, and flowering plants such as irises and tulips.  The nematodes only attack the below ground, non-aerial tissues of plants such as the roots, bulbs, rhizomes, and tubers.The main symptoms of Ditylenchus destructor, common to potatoes and its other hosts, are the rotting and discoloration of subterranean plant tissue.  In potatoes, early infection can be detected by small white spots underneath the potato’s skin.  As the disease progresses, these spots become larger and darker with a spongy or hollow appearance. Tubers develop sunken areas and the skin becomes dry, cracked, and detached from the underlying flesh. There is further discoloration at this stage that is often due to secondary invasions of fungi, bacteria, and free-living nematodes.  Above ground symptoms are usually not seen, although heavily infected plants are often weaker, smaller and can have curled or discolored leaves.Symptoms of Ditylenchus destructor on the bulbs of flowering plants such as irises and tulips are similar to those of potatoes, except infection usually occurs at the bulb’s base and moves upwards.  The fleshy scales develop discolored yellow to black lesions, the roots become blackened, and leaves can develop yellow tips.   Potato rot nematodes in groundnuts, such as peanuts, develop blackened hulls, shrunken kernels, and embryos with a brown discoloration.Potato rot nematodes are identified and diagnosed by various morphological and molecular methods.  The morphological methods are the primary means of diagnosis, with molecular methods being used for when there is a low level of infestation or when only juveniles are present.  Nematodes are extracted from infected plant tissue and examined microscopically for distinguishing characteristics such as body and stylet, and tail morphology.  Molecular methods for identifying Ditylenchus destructor (especially in distinguishing from other Ditylenchus species) include PCRs (polymerase chain reactions) to find restriction patterns of DNA to identify specific species.	 beet Ditylenchus destructor

D. dipsaci has an extensive host range. Major damage occurs in garlic, onion, carrot, fava bean, alfalfa, oats, and strawberry. Ornamental plants can also be infected including hyacinth and tulip. It is estimated that this pathogen infects 400–500 plant species worldwide.In Allium species (onions, garlic, and leeks), infected plants show characteristic symptoms including stunted growth, yellow spots, leaf curl, and foliage lesions. Stems often have swollen regions called “spikkles.” As adult nematodes migrate into the scales of the bulb, and the scales become soft, grey, and loosely packed. Highly infected bulbs can also split apart or show malformed bloating. The leaves of the plant become flaccid and may collapse. This can lead to defoliated plants. Garlic shows similar symptoms of leaf yellowing and stunted bulbs. When harvested, the infected garlic may be missing portions of the root system.In fava beans (Vicia faba), symptoms of infection include reddish-brown stem lesions that can turn black. Young bean pods are dark-brown. Infected seeds are smaller and distorted compared to healthy beans. Speckles and spots are also commonly seen on infected fava beans.Up to 30 biological races occur within D. dipsaci that are mostly distinguished by their host preferences. Very little morphological differences are seen between the races which makes diagnosis difficult. Seed material samples from infected plants can be dissected and viewed under a microscope to confirm the correct race.	 beet Ditylenchus dipsaci

Symptoms appear as dirty white, circular, floury patches on either sides of the leaves.Under favourable environmental conditions, entire leaves, stems, floral parts and pods are affected.The whole leaf may be covered with powdery mass.If persistent, mild chlorosis or necrosis can also occur.	 beet Erysiphe betae

Symptoms appear as dirty white, circular, floury patches on either sides of the leaves.Under favourable environmental conditions, entire leaves, stems, floral parts and pods are affected.The whole leaf may be covered with powdery mass.If persistent, mild chlorosis or necrosis can also occur.	 beet Erysiphe polygoni

Fusarium oxysporum has multiple formae speciales each assigned to a particular host. Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. betae is very host specific to sugar beet. The disease that this pathogen causes is fusarium yellows or fusarium wilt. Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. betae is a type of fungus whose spores survive in the soil.  The symptoms of Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. betae are yellowing between the large veins, chlorosis, wilting, and necrosis of leaves. The pathogen is xylem limited and soil-borne, so by definition it affects the vascular tissue of the roots in order to gain access to the vascular system of the host. This leads to symptoms such as discoloration, chlorosis, and wilting because the pathogen acts as a plug blocking transportation of water and nutrients to the rest of the sugar beet.	 beet Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. betae

In susceptible crops, any parts below the ground are liable to infection. The mycelium of the fungus forms a matted, felt-like purple covering which grows over the surface of the root. Soil particles adhere to this and small, dark-coloured sclerotia grow among the hyphae. A dry rot occurs and secondary rots may move in. Mycelial threads, often merging into strands, grow through the soil and infect nearby plants. A pink or brown mat of mycelial threads may grow above the soil surface. In affected plants, the aerial parts may wilt and have discoloured, stunted foliage.	 beet Helicobasidium brebissonii

One of the most harmful seed and soil borne pathogens, Macrophomina phaseolina is a fungus that infects nearly 500 plant species in more than 100 families. The hosts include: peanut, cabbage, pepper, chickpea, soybean, sunflower, sweet potato, alfalfa, sesame, potato, sorghum, wheat, and corn, among others. The identification of isolates of M. phaseolina is usually based on morphology and efforts to divide the pathogen into subspecies, but because there are wide intraspecific variations in the phenotype of the isolates, these criteria are often not reliable. The failure to correctly detect and identify M. phaseolina using conventional culture-based morphological techniques has led scientists to develop nucleic acid-based molecular approaches, such as highly sensitive and specific polymerase chain reaction-based methods. Researchers have also recently created species-specific oligonucleotide primers and digoxigenin-labeled probes in hopes of better identifying and detecting M. phaseolina.The pathogen M. phaseolina affects the fibrovascular system of the roots and basal internodes of its host, impeding the transport of water and nutrients to the upper parts of the plant. As a result, progressive wilting, premature dying, loss of vigor, and reduced yield are characteristic symptoms of M. phaseolina infection. The fungus also causes many diseases like damping off, seedling blight, collar rot, stem rot, charcoal rot, basal stem rot, and root rot. Although brown lesions may form on the hypocotyls or emerging seedlings, many symptoms occur during or after flowering, including grey discoloration of the stem and taproots, shredding of plant tissue in the stem and top of the taproot, and hollowing of the stem. Small black dots may form beneath the epidermis of the lower stem and in the taproot, giving the stems and roots a charcoal-sprinkled appearance. When the epidermis is removed, small and black microsclerotia (a sign of the disease) may be so numerous that they give a greyish-black tint to the plant tissue. In addition, reddish-brown discoloration and black streaks can form in the pith and vascular tissues of the root and stem.	 beet Macrophomina phaseolina

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 beet Phymatotrichopsis omnivora

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 beet Phymatotrichum omnivorum

Phytoplasmas can infect and cause various symptoms in more than 700 plant species. One characteristic symptom is abnormal floral organ development including phyllody (i.e., the production of leaf-like structures in place of flowers) and virescence (i.e., the development of green flowers attributable to a loss of pigment by petal cells). Phytoplasma-harboring flowering plants may nevertheless be sterile. The expression of genes involved in maintaining the apical meristem or in the development of floral organs is altered in the morphologically affected floral organs of phytoplasma-infected plants.A phytoplasma infection often triggers leaf yellowing, probably due to the presence of phytoplasma cells in phloem, which can affect phloem function and carbohydrate transport, inhibit chlorophyll biosynthesis, and trigger chlorophyll breakdown. These symptoms may be attributable to stress caused by the infection rather than a specific pathogenetic process.Many phytoplasma-infected plants develop a bushy or "witches' broom" appearance due to changes in their normal growth patterns. Most plants exhibit apical dominance but infection can trigger the proliferation of axillary (side) shoots and a reduction in internode size. Such symptoms are actually useful in the commercial production of poinsettias. Infection triggers more axillary shoot production; the poinsettia plants thus produce more than a single flower.	 beet Phytoplasma

Root lesion nematodes infect a great variety of hosts. Pratylenchus penetrans alone has over 350 host plants. They include agricultural crops such as soybeans, potatoes, corn, bananas, and wheat. The genus is found most often in corn. Signs of disease are similar in most plants and generally include necrotic lesions of the roots. The lesions can also be entrances for pathogenic bacteria and fungi, which produce secondary infections. Above ground the plant becomes stunted, chlorotic, and wilted, and it often dies. A crop field may be patchy as plants wither and die. Root lesion nematodes can cause significant yield losses.	 beet Pratylenchus

Pythium aphanidermatum is responsible for pre- and post-emergence damping off.  Pre-emergence damping off is when the seed is infected prior to germination.  This can result in poor or no germination, and is observable as a browning or rotting of the seed.  Post-emergence damping off takes place after germination and results in a thinning, water-soaked stem near the plant collar, which eventually causes the collapse of the plant.  P. aphanidermatum can also cause root rot.  Symptoms of root rot include stunted growth, chlorotic leaves, leaf drop, and wilting.  The infection begins at the root tip, and can cause the infected region to lose its protective outer layer, exposing the inner root to other pathogens	 beet Pythium aphanidermatum

Pythium irregulare is an oomycete that causes pre- and post-emergence damping off, as well as root rot. Pre-emergence damping off occurs when P. irregulare infects seeds before they emerge, causing them to rot and turn brown, thus preventing successful growth. Alternatively, post-emergence damping off occurs when the oomycete infects just after the seed has germinated. This usually causes infection in the roots and stem which appears as water soaking and necrosis. Depending on the severity, plants may collapse or be severely stunted. In plants that are older and more established, P. irregulare causes root rot. This will initially cause necrotic lesions, which leads to chlorosis, reduced yield, poor growth, and stunting due to inadequate water and nutrient acquisition by the roots. Additionally, P. irregulare is often found coinfecting with other Pythium species. All three of these diseases caused by P. irregulare can be caused by other pathogens as well, so a disease diagnosis is not necessarily indicative of P. irregulareIn order to identify Pythium irregulare it is necessary to isolate the organism and observe it microscopically. First, it is important to identify that the microbe is an oomycete by looking for characteristics that are specific to oomycetes, such as coenocytic hyphae, zoospores, and oospores. After that, one can identify the microbe as being in the genera Pythium by observing disease symptoms, host range, as well as the presence of a vesicle, where zoospores form, which is attached to the sporangia. In contrast, most other oomycetes do not have a vesicle and the zoospores form in the sporangia. Finally, once the genera has been identified, it is helpful to use a dichotomous key to identify the species. Some of the key identifiers for P. irregulare include oogonia with irregular shaped, cylindrical projections, sporangia that occur singly, sporangia that are not filamentous, and oogonia smaller than 30 μm. There are also many genomic tests that can be done to determine species based on specific DNA markers. It is also important to note that many diagnosticians do not identify to the species level because it can be difficult to find all necessary microscopic structures and many management techniques can be applied to all Pythium species.Pythium irregulare has a very broad host range, including many agronomically and horticulturally important crops and is found on every continent except for Antarctica. P. irregulare infects over 200 species, including cereals, legumes, fruits, vegetables, and ornamentals. It differs from many other Pythium species in that it prefers cooler environments. A moist environment is also necessary for disease, which aids motility of spores. It is commonly found in both greenhouses and fields.	 beet Pythium irregulare

In susceptible crops, any parts below the ground are liable to infection. The mycelium of the fungus forms a matted, felt-like purple covering which grows over the surface of the root. Soil particles adhere to this and small, dark-coloured sclerotia grow among the hyphae. A dry rot occurs and secondary rots may move in. Mycelial threads, often merging into strands, grow through the soil and infect nearby plants. A pink or brown mat of mycelial threads may grow above the soil surface. In affected plants, the aerial parts may wilt and have discoloured, stunted foliage.	 beet Rhizoctonia crocorum

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 beet Rhizoctonia solani

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 beet Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 beet Thanatephorus cucumeris

This virus was first characterized in cucumbers (Cucumis sativus) showing mosaic symptoms in 1934, hence the name Cucumber mosaic. Since then, it has been found to infect a great variety of other plants. These include other vegetables such as squash, melons, peppers, eggplants, tomatoes, beans, carrots, celery, lettuce, spinach, beets, many ornamentals and bedding plants, such as Narcissus, and various weeds. Its presence has been confirmed on every continent of the world, including Antarctica.Symptoms seen with this virus include leaf mosaic or mottling (Fig. 1), yellowing, ringspots, stunting, and leaf, flower and fruit distortion. CMV also induces a type of symptom on leaves known as the "shoestring" effect on many host species. This effect causes young leaves to appear narrow and the entire plant to be stunted.Specifically, CMV can cause cucumbers to turn pale and bumpy. The leaves of these plants turn mosaic and their rugosity is often changed, making leaves wrinkled and misshapen. Growth of these plants is usually also stunted and produces few flowers. Often, cucumber fruits are oddly shaped, appear gray, and tested bitter. These appearances lead to them being referred to as "white pickles".Tomato plants are usually stunted and have poorly shaped leaves, or "fernleaf", when infected by CMV. Also certain strains of CMV can cause partial or total crop loss. CMV in peppers causes slightly different symptoms than the previously mentioned. Pepper plants often have severe foliar damage, shown as mosaic and necrotic rings. Often the peppers themselves are misshapen and contain chlorotic rings and spots. In celery, CMV causes streaking and spotting and can be often confused with symptoms of the celery mosaic virus. Symptoms of CMV in lettuce, such as chlorosis, plant stunting and often do not properly head, can be very similar to those of lettuce mosaic virus.CMV has also been identified in a lesser extent to a number of plant species. It is found to be a minor virus infecting Allium crops. The virus infection causes extensive malformation on garlic plants, and mild malformation to severe necrotic streaks on onion leaves. The severe damages on garlic plants and difficulty of aphids transmission of garlic isolate, were possible causal for the rare CMV on garlic. Genetically, the two onion isolates from Turkey (CMV-14.3Po and CMV-15.5Po) are highly similar to others isolated from various plant species in Mediterranean, European, and East Asian countries. CMV was also detected on American beautyberry, an important wildlife and pollinator food source plant native to North America.In plant tissue this virus makes characteristic viral inclusion bodies which can be diagnostic. They are hexagonal in shape (Fig. 2) and stain both in a protein stain and a nucleic acid stain. The inclusions can also be rhomboidal, may appear hollow (Fig. 2) and can form larger aggregates. The inclusions are not uniformly distributed and can be found in epidermal (Fig. 2), mesophyll, and stomatal cells. These inclusions are made up of virus particles.			 bellflower Cucumber mosaic virus

INSV has a wide host range and can be found in over 300 plant species including weeds, fruits, vegetables and ornamental crops. Of these, the most severely affected include tomatoes, lettuce, pepper and peppermint as well as most all ornamentals. Symptoms of infection include a downward curling of the leaves, leaf tip dieback, stunting, necrosis of growing leaf tips, sunken ‘chicken pox-like’ spots on leaves (often with a surrounding halo), stem death and yellowing.  Since these symptoms are so generic, extreme caution must be taken when introducing new plants to your greenhouse. Infected plants can not be cured and not all hosts display visible symptoms Western Flower Thrips are extremely hard to remove from their host plants, as they often dig themselves deep into blossoms, buds and other areas hard to reach with insecticides. So, even if plants are sprayed regularly with insecticide, INSV and other insect vectored viruses can not always be ruled out when forming diagnosis.Temperature and host both play an important factor when discussing the symptoms which an INSV infected plant will display. When New Guinea Impatiens are cultivated in an environment varying between 75 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit the host plant will be highly symptomatic. However, when New Guinea Impatiens are grown in an environment just 10 degrees cooler it is unlikely for there to be any observable symptoms of disease.	 bellflower Impatiens necrotic spot virus

One of the most harmful seed and soil borne pathogens, Macrophomina phaseolina is a fungus that infects nearly 500 plant species in more than 100 families. The hosts include: peanut, cabbage, pepper, chickpea, soybean, sunflower, sweet potato, alfalfa, sesame, potato, sorghum, wheat, and corn, among others. The identification of isolates of M. phaseolina is usually based on morphology and efforts to divide the pathogen into subspecies, but because there are wide intraspecific variations in the phenotype of the isolates, these criteria are often not reliable. The failure to correctly detect and identify M. phaseolina using conventional culture-based morphological techniques has led scientists to develop nucleic acid-based molecular approaches, such as highly sensitive and specific polymerase chain reaction-based methods. Researchers have also recently created species-specific oligonucleotide primers and digoxigenin-labeled probes in hopes of better identifying and detecting M. phaseolina.The pathogen M. phaseolina affects the fibrovascular system of the roots and basal internodes of its host, impeding the transport of water and nutrients to the upper parts of the plant. As a result, progressive wilting, premature dying, loss of vigor, and reduced yield are characteristic symptoms of M. phaseolina infection. The fungus also causes many diseases like damping off, seedling blight, collar rot, stem rot, charcoal rot, basal stem rot, and root rot. Although brown lesions may form on the hypocotyls or emerging seedlings, many symptoms occur during or after flowering, including grey discoloration of the stem and taproots, shredding of plant tissue in the stem and top of the taproot, and hollowing of the stem. Small black dots may form beneath the epidermis of the lower stem and in the taproot, giving the stems and roots a charcoal-sprinkled appearance. When the epidermis is removed, small and black microsclerotia (a sign of the disease) may be so numerous that they give a greyish-black tint to the plant tissue. In addition, reddish-brown discoloration and black streaks can form in the pith and vascular tissues of the root and stem.	 bellflower Macrophomina phaseolina

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 bellflower Rhizoctonia solani

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 bellflower Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

TSWV infects a variety of hosts, contributing to its global economic impact on crops. There are over a thousand different hosts for TSWV. The host range of TSWV includes agronomically important crops like tomatoes and tobacco. The symptoms of TSWV vary from host to host. There is also variability of symptoms within a single type of host due to the age of the plant, nutrition and the environment (especially temperature). Common symptoms include stunting, ringspots on fruit and necrosis of leaves. There are many different strains of TSWV, and differences in symptoms may also be attributed to the differences in the number of strains present.	 bellflower Tomato spotted wilt virus

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 black walnut Fusarium solani

The host range for Phytophythora cinnamomi is very broad. It is distributed worldwide and causes disease on hundreds of hosts. The disease affects a range of economic groups, including food crops such as avocado and pineapple as well as trees and woody ornamentals such as Fraser firs, shortleaf pines, loblolly pines, azaleas, camellia, boxwood, causing root rot and dieback. It is a root pathogen that causes root rot and death of host plants. Some symptoms include: wilting, decreased fruit size, decrease in yield, collar rot, gum exudation, necrosis, leaf chlorosis, leaf curl, and stem cankers. Another symptom is that it can cause dieback of young shoots and may interfere with transpiration of roots to shoots. Older plants may not exhibit symptoms or may display only mild dieback despite having severe root rot.	 black walnut Phytophthora cinnamomi

Phytoplasmas can infect and cause various symptoms in more than 700 plant species. One characteristic symptom is abnormal floral organ development including phyllody (i.e., the production of leaf-like structures in place of flowers) and virescence (i.e., the development of green flowers attributable to a loss of pigment by petal cells). Phytoplasma-harboring flowering plants may nevertheless be sterile. The expression of genes involved in maintaining the apical meristem or in the development of floral organs is altered in the morphologically affected floral organs of phytoplasma-infected plants.A phytoplasma infection often triggers leaf yellowing, probably due to the presence of phytoplasma cells in phloem, which can affect phloem function and carbohydrate transport, inhibit chlorophyll biosynthesis, and trigger chlorophyll breakdown. These symptoms may be attributable to stress caused by the infection rather than a specific pathogenetic process.Many phytoplasma-infected plants develop a bushy or "witches' broom" appearance due to changes in their normal growth patterns. Most plants exhibit apical dominance but infection can trigger the proliferation of axillary (side) shoots and a reduction in internode size. Such symptoms are actually useful in the commercial production of poinsettias. Infection triggers more axillary shoot production; the poinsettia plants thus produce more than a single flower.	 black walnut Phytoplasma

INSV has a wide host range and can be found in over 300 plant species including weeds, fruits, vegetables and ornamental crops. Of these, the most severely affected include tomatoes, lettuce, pepper and peppermint as well as most all ornamentals. Symptoms of infection include a downward curling of the leaves, leaf tip dieback, stunting, necrosis of growing leaf tips, sunken ‘chicken pox-like’ spots on leaves (often with a surrounding halo), stem death and yellowing.  Since these symptoms are so generic, extreme caution must be taken when introducing new plants to your greenhouse. Infected plants can not be cured and not all hosts display visible symptoms Western Flower Thrips are extremely hard to remove from their host plants, as they often dig themselves deep into blossoms, buds and other areas hard to reach with insecticides. So, even if plants are sprayed regularly with insecticide, INSV and other insect vectored viruses can not always be ruled out when forming diagnosis.Temperature and host both play an important factor when discussing the symptoms which an INSV infected plant will display. When New Guinea Impatiens are cultivated in an environment varying between 75 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit the host plant will be highly symptomatic. However, when New Guinea Impatiens are grown in an environment just 10 degrees cooler it is unlikely for there to be any observable symptoms of disease.	 bleeding heart Impatiens necrotic spot virus

These nematodes cause symptoms both on leaves and roots. Foliar symptoms of root-knot disease may be expressed at any time during the growing season. These symptoms of nematode damage on peanut plants range from stunting, yellowing, wilting and even plant death.  Ferris (1999–2012), also reported that nematodes cause yellowing; mid-day wilting; symptoms of water and nutrient stress; and sometimes death, especially if the nematode is interacting with other organisms.  They can appear in a peanut crop beginning about 100 days after planting or after periods of dry hot weather.  Areas of root-knot nematode damaged peanut are usually round to oblong in shape, and rows of infected plants may never overlap as those of healthy plants. It is common for plants to wilt and eventually die in areas where nematode populations are high.Root symptoms are similar to those caused by all nematodes including a reduction in number of feeder roots and root stunting, but root knot nematodes cause unique symptoms on roots and pods. Nematodes cause galls (knots) to form on both roots and pods of the peanut, and these galls are highly diagnostic for root-knot nematode presence compared to other nematodes affecting peanut. The presence of galls on roots, pegs and pods appears as single or multiple wart-like growths that may or may not be discolored. As root knot nematode infection progresses, and generally later in the season, secondary root and pod rots cause further damage and eventual death of the plants.Many soil-borne fungi, especially Sclerotium rolfsii (which causes southern stem rot) and Sclerotinia minor (which causes Sclerotinia blight), will infect the weakened peanut plants and cause more plant death. Root knot nematode infection of the peg weakens the peg so that it breaks during harvest, contributing to additional yield losses because the detached pods are then left in the soil. Infection of the pods leads to a decline in yield quality.The damage threshold, or the initial nematode population density at which peanut yields begin to decline, has been reported to be in the range of 1 to 10 eggs and second stage juveniles per 500 cm3 soil for M. arenaria on susceptible peanut cultivars.	 bleeding heart Meloidogyne arenaria

Plants affected by M. incognita present above ground symptoms of water- and nutrient-stress, yellowing, wilting, and stunting. Below ground galling on roots, bulbs, tubers is the typical symptom. Plant death may occur in high infestation level.	 bleeding heart Meloidogyne incognita

Like other plant pathogenic viruses, TMV has a very wide host range and has different effects depending on the host being infected. Tobacco mosaic virus has been known to cause a production loss for flue cured tobacco of up to two percent in North Carolina. It is known to infect members of nine plant families, and at least 125 individual species, including tobacco, tomato, pepper (all members of the useful Solanaceae), cucumbers, a number of ornamental flowers, and beans including Phaseolus vulgaris and Vigna unguiculata. There are many different strains. The first symptom of this virus disease is a light green coloration between the veins of young leaves. This is followed quickly by the development of a "mosaic" or mottled pattern of light and dark green areas in the leaves. Rugosity may also be seen where the infected plant leaves display small localized random wrinkles. These symptoms develop quickly and are more pronounced on younger leaves. Its infection does not result in plant death, but if infection occurs early in the season, plants are stunted. Lower leaves are subjected to "mosaic burn"  especially during periods of hot and dry weather. In these cases, large dead areas develop in the leaves. This constitutes one of the most destructive phases of Tobacco mosaic virus infection. Infected leaves may be crinkled, puckered, or elongated. However, if TMV infects crops like grape and apple, it is almost symptomless. TMV is able  to infect and complete its replication cycle in a plant pathogenic fungus,TMV is able to enter and replicate in cells of C. acutatum, C. clavatum, and C. theobromicola, which may not be an exception, although it has neither been found nor probably searched for in nature.	 bleeding heart Tobacco mosaic virus

Hosts species include wheat, barley, oats, rye, triticale, turfgrasses and many other grass species found throughout the world.  Symptoms are found on lower leaves early in the season and upper leaves later in the season.  Lesions are usually elliptical and are initially chlorotic.  Later, they develop a brown margin with a white center and split longitudinally. Pycnidia can be found within the lesions are generally black in color.	 butterfly flower Ascochyta

There are a variety of hosts including but not limited to; banana, beans, cabbage, carrot, cassava, coffee, corn, cotton, onion, other crucifers, pepper, potato, sweet potato and tomato. Pandanus conoideus and karuka (Pandanus julianettii) get bacterial soft rot and necrosis on the leaves from Pectobacterium carotovorum subsp. carotovorum. For each host there are different symptoms displayed. Most symptoms are along the lines of watery and soft decay of the tissue. Cabbage and crucifers' symptoms start where the tissue makes contact with the soil. Often there is a change in color and in the case of a carrot, the whole taproot can be decayed leaving just the epidermis. Sweet potatoes show clear lesions that grow rapidly leaving a recognizable watery and soft, oozy tissue where only the peel remains intact.Potatoes experience a cream to tan colored tuber that becomes very soft and watery. A characteristic black border separates the diseased area and the healthy tissue. Only when the secondary organism invades the infected tissue does that decay become slimy with a foul odor. Like the carrot, the whole tuber can be consumed leaving just the epidermis in the soil. The foliage becomes weak and chlorotic with upward turned leaves and lesions on the stem. The stem also rots and becomes mushy with its colorless or brown lesions.	 butterfly flower Bacterial soft rot

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 butterfly flower Colletotrichum gloeosporioides

INSV has a wide host range and can be found in over 300 plant species including weeds, fruits, vegetables and ornamental crops. Of these, the most severely affected include tomatoes, lettuce, pepper and peppermint as well as most all ornamentals. Symptoms of infection include a downward curling of the leaves, leaf tip dieback, stunting, necrosis of growing leaf tips, sunken ‘chicken pox-like’ spots on leaves (often with a surrounding halo), stem death and yellowing.  Since these symptoms are so generic, extreme caution must be taken when introducing new plants to your greenhouse. Infected plants can not be cured and not all hosts display visible symptoms Western Flower Thrips are extremely hard to remove from their host plants, as they often dig themselves deep into blossoms, buds and other areas hard to reach with insecticides. So, even if plants are sprayed regularly with insecticide, INSV and other insect vectored viruses can not always be ruled out when forming diagnosis.Temperature and host both play an important factor when discussing the symptoms which an INSV infected plant will display. When New Guinea Impatiens are cultivated in an environment varying between 75 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit the host plant will be highly symptomatic. However, when New Guinea Impatiens are grown in an environment just 10 degrees cooler it is unlikely for there to be any observable symptoms of disease.	 butterfly flower Impatiens necrotic spot virus

Because there are so many different hosts for this pathogen, the symptoms are very variable. Common symptoms include abnormal leaf color, abnormal leaf form, wilting leaves, galls, swollen roots, reduced root system, dwarfing and senescence (Cabi 2018). This pathogen does the most damage when present in light soils with hot weather conditions (Alford 2012).	 butterfly flower Meloidogyne javanica

Phytophthora cactorum has an extremely wide host range, and can infect over 200 species or 160 genera of trees, ornamentals, and fruit crops. In general, P. cactorum is capable of infecting both young and old plants, and causes root rots and crown rots of the many genera it infects. Although the symptoms this pathogen produces varies between the types of organisms it infects, in general disease occurs during periods that are both wet and warm. Furthermore, most infections are caused by zoospores entering the plant through wounds.: 34 On older trees, P. cactorum causes the formation of sap exuding dark colored cankers on the trunks of trees, as well as leaf size and number reduction, chlorosis, and dieback of branches. The diagnosis of a P. cactorum infection of trees, is based on the identification of symptoms, in particular the oozing cankers, and confirmation of symptoms in a diagnosis lab or utilization of a field ELISA detection kit. P. cactorum can be a major problem in apple orchards, as it can cause crown, collar, and root rots in apple trees. When infecting apple trees, the organism can attack through wounds either above or below the soil line, impairing phloem and root function, and causing stunting, foliar disorders, and death after several years. Furthermore, because the pathogen causes damage to the phloem of the tree, one diagnostic method is to check for necrotic phloem tissue at the base of the tree which will be orange to red-brown in the early stages and dark brown in the later stages of infection.A good example of P. cactorum causing foliar disease is on ginseng. Foliar disease of ginseng usually occurs during May and early June, causing the leaves to become transparent and papery. Ginseng foliar infection occurs through the rain splash dispersal of spores from the soil onto above ground wounds. Once infected, P. cactorum works its way down to the roots, rotting them and killing the plant.P. cactorum is also one of the causal agents of black rot on orchids. When infecting orchids, this organism first produces small black lesions on the pseudobulbs of the orchid, which then enlarge and may engulf the entire pseudobulb, leaf, or move through the rhizomes to other portions of the plant prior to killing it. Diagnosis of orchid black rot by P. cactorum is through the identification of lemon-shaped zoosporangia with either a papilla or a short pedicel, the presence of oospores, or molecular identification. Since there are multiple species of Phytophthora that are capable of causing disease on orchids, classification only to the genus level is required for proper prescription of disease management techniques.Crown rot or root rot of strawberries is a common example of diseases of fruit crops caused by P. cactorum. On strawberries, P. cactorum infects the roots and the base of the plant causing stunting and reduced leaf size, with possible complete plant collapse later in the season. Similarly to apple trees, crown rots of strawberries caused by P. cactorum can be partially diagnosed by cutting the crown of the plant and observing brown vascular tissues, and root rots by brown or black stunted roots.Leather rot of strawberry is an additional disease affecting strawberry plants, with P. cactorum being the causal agent. Symptoms of this disease include brown patches or green patches with a brown border in immature fruit, with infected mature fruit displaying a purple to brown color, and becoming hard, leathery, or even mummified. Signs include visible mycelium inside of hollow infected berries, as well as mycelium on the surface of berries.  Infected fruit often has an unpleasant taste and odor, which is diagnostic. 	 butterfly flower Phytophthora cactorum

The host range for Phytophythora cinnamomi is very broad. It is distributed worldwide and causes disease on hundreds of hosts. The disease affects a range of economic groups, including food crops such as avocado and pineapple as well as trees and woody ornamentals such as Fraser firs, shortleaf pines, loblolly pines, azaleas, camellia, boxwood, causing root rot and dieback. It is a root pathogen that causes root rot and death of host plants. Some symptoms include: wilting, decreased fruit size, decrease in yield, collar rot, gum exudation, necrosis, leaf chlorosis, leaf curl, and stem cankers. Another symptom is that it can cause dieback of young shoots and may interfere with transpiration of roots to shoots. Older plants may not exhibit symptoms or may display only mild dieback despite having severe root rot.	 butterfly flower Phytophthora cinnamomi

This species is reported to be pathogenic on grandiflora petunia (Petunia × atkinsiana). It causes root rot, shoot rot and shanking in tulips. It also infects blue daze (Evolvulus glomeratus), dusty miller (Jacobaea maritima), Barberton daisy (Gerbera jamesonii), and garden verbena (Verbena × hybrida). Like its relative Phytophtora cambivora, it can cause ink disease of chestnuts (Castanea sativa).The species is a cause of foot rot in tomatoes, causing discoloration and lesion in the stem. Progression of lesions leads to girdling, root system rot and plant collapse. Foliage will not be affected until plant stem has become girdled.	 butterfly flower Phytophthora cryptogea

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 butterfly flower Rhizoctonia solani

TSWV infects a variety of hosts, contributing to its global economic impact on crops. There are over a thousand different hosts for TSWV. The host range of TSWV includes agronomically important crops like tomatoes and tobacco. The symptoms of TSWV vary from host to host. There is also variability of symptoms within a single type of host due to the age of the plant, nutrition and the environment (especially temperature). Common symptoms include stunting, ringspots on fruit and necrosis of leaves. There are many different strains of TSWV, and differences in symptoms may also be attributed to the differences in the number of strains present.	 butterfly flower Tomato spotted wilt virus

Armillaria mellea typically infects hardwood trees and conifers but sometimes will infect non-woody monocots and a few herbaceous plants. There are few signs, and the ones that do exist are often hard to find. The most prominent sign is honey-colored mushrooms at the base of the infected plant. Additional signs include white, fan-shaped mycelia and black rhizomorphs with diameters between 1/32nd of an inch and 1/8th of an inch. These usually are not as noticeable because they occur beneath the bark and in the soil, respectively. The symptoms are much more numerous, including slower growth, dieback of branches, yellowing foliage, rotted wood at base and/or roots, external cankers, cracking bark, bleeding stem, leaf wilting, defoliation, and rapid death. Leaf wilting, defoliation, and dieback occur after the destruction of the cambium.	 cacao Armillaria mellea

Armillaria mellea typically infects hardwood trees and conifers but sometimes will infect non-woody monocots and a few herbaceous plants. There are few signs, and the ones that do exist are often hard to find. The most prominent sign is honey-colored mushrooms at the base of the infected plant. Additional signs include white, fan-shaped mycelia and black rhizomorphs with diameters between 1/32nd of an inch and 1/8th of an inch. These usually are not as noticeable because they occur beneath the bark and in the soil, respectively. The symptoms are much more numerous, including slower growth, dieback of branches, yellowing foliage, rotted wood at base and/or roots, external cankers, cracking bark, bleeding stem, leaf wilting, defoliation, and rapid death. Leaf wilting, defoliation, and dieback occur after the destruction of the cambium.	 cacao Armillariella mellea

Armillaria species infect a wide variety of woody plants. In a survey of 250 permanent plots of trees in Albania, Armillaria tabescens affected multiple species of trees including fir species, where it invaded when the plant was stressed. Tsopelas et al. reported Armillaria tabescens to be more prevalent in areas where the trees were stressed due to limited moisture. In oak trees, it was slightly more damaging and could kill young trees. Armillaria tabescens was also recorded in poplar and eucalyptus plantations, and almond trees were found to be very susceptible to infection. The results of the study by Lushaj et al. showed that Armillaria tabescens was most frequently recorded on fruit and ornamental trees compared to the other species.Armillaria tabescens causes separation of the bark from the wood by the production of mycelial fans in the trunk, a common sign of Armillaria root rot. It also causes gummosis, patches of gummy material on the surface of plants, which occurs in response to an external stimulus which causes the plant to ooze sap. Other common symptoms are soft rot of cortex, dwarfing, dieback, wilting, and abnormal coloring of the leaves. Small trees are killed rapidly by Armillaria tabescens and the symptoms aren’t noticeable until the leaves wilt. However, on larger trees symptoms occur earlier and start as a thin crown with small leaves. A crown of a tree refers to any branches or foliage that are growing out from the trunk. Therefore, thinning of the crown would mean reduced branches and leaves. The trees eventually start yellowing and defoliating followed by fast wilting and dying of limbs. The fungus is a white rot so it breaks down lignin in the wood. The breaking down of the lignin leads to the trees becoming hollow.	 cacao Armillariella tabescens

The symptom of black pod disease is the necrotic lesion on the cocoa pod with brown or black color, which eventually enlarged to cover the whole pod. White mycelia growth on lesions that appeared several days after infection is the sign for the causal pathogen of black pod disease, which is Phytophthora spp.Black pod disease starts when the infected pod shows some little yellow spots, which eventually turn brown and enlarge to a dark brown or black lesion within five days. The lesion is fast growing and covers the entire pod after eight days of infection. The infection does not only occur on the pod surface, but also invades inside the pod affecting the beans. The growth of white mycelia on black pod is visible after 11 days and the sporulation is initiated. The dispersal of sporangia or zoospores through water, ants and other insects occurs at this stage and will infect other healthy pods nearby. Direct contact of a black pod with healthy pods also leads to the spread of disease. In addition, the infected flower cushion and mummified pods are the locations for P. palmivora survival during dry season, where the pathogen will grow and continue to infect other developing podsThe infection occurs on any stage of pod development, where it causes wilting and dying of young pods and destroyed the beans of mature pods. The fully infected pods (the mummified pod), which then become dehydrated, are capable of providing the inoculum of P. palmivora for at least 3 years. P. megakarya causes the same symptom as P. palmivora, but the occurrence is faster and generally produces greater amount of spores. Both P. palmivora and P. megakarya also caused canker on bark, flower cushion and chupóns, and cankers on the base could extend to the main roots.  Cankers were identified as one of inoculum sources for black pod disease. Furthermore, the pattern of infection caused by P. megakarya starts from the ground and moves up to the canopy, however there is no distinct pattern of disease infection caused by P. palmivora was reported. This pattern of infection could be due to P. megakarya and P. palmivora that were found to survive in soil and P. megakarya could be surviving in the roots of a few species of shade trees found in cocoa plantation.	 cacao Black pod disease

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 cacao Botryodiplodia theobromae

Cacao swollen-shoot virus (CSSV) principally infects Theobroma cacao (cacao tree) and has a major effect on crop yields.  Within one year of infection yields decrease by 25%, and within two years by 50%.  The trees are usually killed within 3 to 4 years.  Symptoms vary depending on the strain of virus.  Main symptoms include: leaf chlorosis (interveinal), root necrosis, red vein banding in young leaves, small mottled pods, and stem/root swelling followed by die-back.  CSSV has also been isolated from alternative hosts Cola chlamydanta, Ceiba pentandra, Adansonia digitata, Cola gigantean and Sterculia tragacantha.  These alternate hosts display the same symptoms as infected cacao trees, but with less severity.    Symptoms also vary with environmental conditions.  Neither nutrition nor temperature changes have a perceivable effect on symptoms, but increased light intensity inhibits the development of root/stem swellings in infected plants.  Shaded cacao trees exhibit decreased growth and slightly more severe symptoms.	 cacao Cacao swollen shoot virus

Cephaleuros virescens is known to have a broad host range, the widest host range of the species. It has been recorded on 287 plant species and cultivars on the U.S. Gulf coast alone. Common hosts of the plant include tropical trees and shrubs, with the following being the more common or economically important; tea, kava, pepper, para rubber, magnolia, coffee, holly, Indian hawthorn, oil palm, avocado, vanilla, mango, breadfruit, guava, coconut, cashews, cacao, citrus, etc.Most commonly Cephaleuros virescens is identified by the leaf spots it causes. Theses leaf spots are an orange-brown rust in color and usually occur entirely on the upper leaf surface, although leaf spots on the undersides of infected leaves have been reported. The spots are fuzzy in texture and approximately 2 cm (0.8 in) in diameter. In some cases, commonly in more susceptible hosts, stem and fruit spots can occur as a result of infection as well. These leaf spots cause a reduction in plant photosynthetic surface area. While usually harmless, severe causes of these leaf spots can lead to defoliation, twig dieback, tissue necrosis, and loss of marketable fruit.	 cacao Cephaleuros virescens

Ceratocystis fimbriata is an ascomycete fungal pathogen. The species as a whole can infect a wide variety of hosts, but particular strains are host-specific. One example is the Ipomoea form of the fungus, which is specific to sweet potato (Ipomea batatas) and wild morning glory. Symptoms can be found on the fleshy root or visible in plants. On sweet potato, Ceratocystis fimbriata causes a disease called 'black rot,' which displays firm and dry circular brown/black rots. Infected plants often show stunted growth, wilting, and yellowing. Wilting occurs because this pathogen can also travel through xylem and infect vascular system. During disease, white, fuzzy mycelia with long black perithecia grow out from the lesions. Additionally, research demonstrates that sweet potatoes infected with C. fimbriata demonstrate increased respiration which is partially due to the infection's influence on protein metabolism. Higher respiration rates cause dry weight loss in the tubers which poses a problem for marketability.	 cacao Ceratocystis fimbriata

One of the most well-known diseases caused by Ceratocystis paradoxa is Black rot or stem-end rot of pineapple, but it can also infect tropical fruit plants such as banana and coconuts as well as sugarcane. The pathogen infects the fruits through wounds or other openings after harvest has already happened and the fruit is fresh.Symptoms for this disease are very obvious black lesions on the fruit, the main infection part of the plant. If the pathogen infects the plant while fruits are still on it, they will prematurely drop. Other symptoms include discoloration of leaves as well as the seeds. The lesions on the fruit evolve to become soft rot spots that produce a heinous odor. The fruit can even get to the point of breakdown.Known hosts:Ananas comosus (pineapple)AraceaeAreca catechu (betelnut palm)Borassus flabellifer (toddy palm)Butia capitataCocos nucifera (coconut)Coffea (coffee)Daucus carota (carrot)Dypsis decaryiElaeis guineensis (African oil palm)EucalyptusHowea forsteriana (paradise palm)Mangifera indica (mango)Musa x paradisiaca (plantain)Phoenix dactylifera (date-palm)Saccharum officinarum (sugarcane)Solanum muricatum (melon pear)Theobroma cacao (cocoa)Zea mays (maize)	 cacao Ceratocystis paradoxa

Cacao necrosis virus is restricted to systemic infection of Theobroma cacao in nature. Symptoms on cacao include an acute stage showing translucent veinal necrosis of leaves, necrotic or chlorotic spots of leaves, defoliation, and dieback of shoots that rarely leads to seedling death if infected by the Ghanaian isolate. A following recovery phase of live plants shows limited leaf symptoms.The virus has been transmitted to numerous diagnostically susceptible host species including Beta vulgaris, Chenopodium amaranticolor, Chenopodium quinoa, Cucumis sativus, Glycine max, Gomphrena globosa, Nicotiana clevelandii, Nicotiana glutinosa, Nicotiana tabacum, Petunia × hybrida, Phaseolus vulgaris, Tetragonia tetragonioides, Theobroma cacao, and Vigna unguiculata, but these plants are not infected in nature. The strain used to infect these species was the Ghanaian isolate. Three of these species displayed characteristic symptoms: P. vulgaris cv. The Prince, Beta vulgaris cv. Greentop, and Chenopodium quinoa. P. vulgaris develops chlorotic rings 4–5 days post inoculation on the primary leaf site, followed by veinal chlorotic mottling on systemic infection of trifoliate leaves. B. vulgaris displays red rings to the inoculated leaves 10 days post infection without systemic infection. C. quinoa displays severe tip necrosis 10–12 days post inoculation without systemic infection.Indexing of the disease occurs when a rootstock is grafted onto a susceptible cacao cultivar and then the plant is examined for symptom development.	 cacao Cocoa necrosis virus

Erythricium salmonicolor has a very broad host range. The host plants of greatest importance include rubber, tea, coffee, cacao, grapefruit, orange, nutmeg, mango, apple, coca, and kola. Pink Disease can cause heavy losses including individual branch death to the loss of the whole tree in cases where the main stem or several branches are affected. E. salmonicolor causes girdling cankers which prevent the normal function of some physiological processes, eventually leading to defoliation and die-back of outer branches. On rubber trees, initial stages of infection appear as drops of latex and silky-white mycelial growth on the bark surface. In black pepper plants, sterile pink to white pustules approximately 1 mm in diameter appear on young green stems. In citrus trees, sterile pustules may appear first, and in some cases the trees may have oozing sap or gum. In cacao trees, first symptoms of infection usually present as a sparse white mycelium on the bark surface, which can be easily overlooked. Trees are most susceptible in areas with high levels of rainfall, such as tropical rainforests. Diagnosis of Pink Disease is typically achieved through the use of light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy to observe sporulation of the pathogen.	 cacao Erythricium salmonicolor

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 cacao Glomerella cingulata

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 cacao Lasiodiplodia theobromae

Moniliophthora perniciosa can infect a number of hosts. Generally, M. perniciosa infects tropical host plants, and host plants in the Upper Amazon River basin on the eastern side of the Andes. M. perniciosa is now known to comprise four different biotypes (C, S, L and H), each infecting different (and unrelated) host plants. The economically important C-biotype infects species of Theobroma and Herrania (family Malvaceae).A second biotype (L-biotype) was  found on liana vines in Ecuador; subsequently the host was identified as Arrabidaea verrucosa (Bignoniaceae) but witches' broom symptoms have not been observed on this host.  The S-biotype, reported only from Brazil caused witches' broom symptoms on hosts within the family Solanaceae, including Solanum rugosum; . Under experimental conditions, this biotype is also able to cause witches' broom symptoms on tomato, aubergine, potato, pepper and potato. Most recently discovered is the H-biotype, which infects Heteropterys acutifolia (Malpighiaceae) but this has been reclassified as a separate species, Moniliophthora brasiliensis. Recent phylogenetic analysis of field-collected basidiomes and cultures suggests that other biotypes may also exist.Investigation of the breeding biology of these various biotypes found that those causing disease symptoms (C,S) are non-outcrossing (primary homothallic), wherein a single uninucleate basidiospore is capable of completing its life cycle. This is crucial in the epidemiology of disease since a single spore infection can be fertile. Primary homothallism is highly unusual amongst agaric fungi which are outcrossing, requiring mating between mycelia derived from single spore germlings (monokaryons) to form a dikaryon which is capable of basidiome formation.  The L-biotype, in contrast to its relatives exhibits a bifactorial outcrossing mechanism.Infection of M. perniciosa on T. cacao causes Witches’ Broom Disease (WBD), which show distinctive symptoms of hypertrophy and hyperplasia of distal tissue of the infection site, loss of apical dominance, proliferation of auxiliary shoots, and the formation of abnormal stems resulting in a broom-like structure called a green broom. Infection of flower cushions results in the formation of cushion brooms and reduces the ability to produce viable pods, causing seedless pods, or in other words, parthenocarpic fruits. Parthenocarpy results in M. perniciosa targeting nutrient acquisition while altering the host physiology without causing significant necrosis. After 1–2 months post infection, necrosis of infected tissues occurs distal to the original infection site, forming a structure called a dry broom. WBD may also lead to plant death after successive attacks of M. perniciosa. Signs of M. perniciosa infection are green brooms, which are broom-like structures that are formed from the stem, and highly infective mushrooms formed on pods and affected vegetative tissue, which are small and pink. It is possible to cultivate these basidiomata under experimental conditions on a bran-vermiculite medium using the 'pie-dish' method to simulate the wetting/drying conditions experienced by the fungus under field conditions.	 cacao Moniliophthora perniciosa

Mycoleptodiscus terrestris is an ascomycete with a wide host range that includes several types of popular aquatic weeds that have become invasive in their problem states – mainly southern states. But aside from them the pathogen also infects several types of alfalfa and legumes and have been seen to infect plants all the way up to Minnesota. This disease is known to cause several symptoms in affected hosts including: leaf spot, crowning, and lots of root rot. These symptoms are what cause major yield loss and is why this pathogen is so important to our agricultural systems.	 cacao Mycoleptodiscus terrestris

Phoradendron species can infest many taxa of plants including hackberry (Celtis spp.) mesquite (Prosopsis spp.), cedar, elm (Ulmus spp.), and Osage-orange. Certain species of Phoradendron are host-specific; for example, in Arizona, Phoradendron tomentosum infests cottonwood (Populus fremontii), sycamore (Platanus wrightii), ash (Fraxinus spp.), walnut (Juglans spp.) and willow (Salix spp.). P. californicum infests shrubs and trees such as acacia (Acacia spp.) and blue palo verde (Parkinsonia florida). Some species infest junipers (Juniperus spp.) and oaks (Quercus spp.). Branches often become swollen and distorted, forming burls and making the tree more susceptible to insect attack. Phoradendron presents serious problems along rivers, streams, parks, and golf courses with large cottonwood trees. Deciduous trees can be mistaken for evergreens during the winter if infection is heavy. Other common symptoms include swelling formations of witch's broom, dieback, and weakened branches.	 cacao Phoradendron

Although the common name of Phytophthora palmivora is bud rot of palms, and its Latin name means "plant destroyer" and "palm eater", it affects many tropical plants and has a moderately broad host range. P. palmivora is well studied in coconuts and papaya trees, however there are multiple hosts that are less commonly studied.  One common symptom of P. palmivora is fruit rots which are found in papaya, citrus, coconuts, durian, and cacao. Root rots are another symptom of P. palmivora and can be seen in red maples, citrus, papaya, mango, durian, and black pepper. Another symptom is the presence of cankers which are found in red maple, papaya, rubber, mangos, and cacao. Bud rots can also be seen in papaya and coconuts infected with P. palmivora. Bud rots are also found in Palmyra palms and coconut palms. Collar rots are found on citrus, mango, and black pepper infected with P. palmivora. The signs of P. palmivora are microscopic and can be differentiated from other oomycetes by the presence of oval shaped papillate sporangia with short pedicles and spherical oogonia with narrow stalks (Widmer, 2014).	 cacao Phytophthora hevae

Phytophthora megakarya's only known host is Theobroma cacao, or the cocoa tree, located in West and Central Africa. It is considered to be the most virulent species of Phytophthora which infects T. cacao, causing the greatest percentage of yield loss. This pathogen causes black pod disease which produces an array of symptoms throughout the host’s life cycle.P. megakarya is a facultative parasite that can infect any part of the cacao tree at any time under optimal environmental conditions. Trees as young as seedlings may show symptoms of infection such as blight or root rot. Bark wounds, called cankers, can form on stems and branches as a result of disease. Infected cocoa pods rot and turn black, providing insight on the origin of the disease name. Other symptoms that may occur include damping off, dieback, lesions, mummification, premature drop, soft rot, and shriveling.The process of infection by P. megakarya is quite rapid. Small translucent spots on the pod can be seen 2 to 3 days after infection. Whitish spores can be seen growing on these spots 3 to 5 days following their emergence. The spots will grow and darken in color until eventually the entire pod turns black and becomes mummified. In more advanced stages, the pathogen may take over the internal tissues and cause the cocoa beans to become warped. P. megakarya also readily forms stem cankers that are usually confined to the lower part of the tree, but may be present anywhere on the tree. Canker lesions may extend beneath the soil surface, providing a source of primary inoculum.P. megakarya can be distinguished from other Phytophthora species by its production of gametangia. These gametangia have large nuclei containing five to six chromosomes and sporangia growing off of medium-length stalks.	 cacao Phytophthora megakarya

Although the common name of Phytophthora palmivora is bud rot of palms, and its Latin name means "plant destroyer" and "palm eater", it affects many tropical plants and has a moderately broad host range. P. palmivora is well studied in coconuts and papaya trees, however there are multiple hosts that are less commonly studied.  One common symptom of P. palmivora is fruit rots which are found in papaya, citrus, coconuts, durian, and cacao. Root rots are another symptom of P. palmivora and can be seen in red maples, citrus, papaya, mango, durian, and black pepper. Another symptom is the presence of cankers which are found in red maple, papaya, rubber, mangos, and cacao. Bud rots can also be seen in papaya and coconuts infected with P. palmivora. Bud rots are also found in Palmyra palms and coconut palms. Collar rots are found on citrus, mango, and black pepper infected with P. palmivora. The signs of P. palmivora are microscopic and can be differentiated from other oomycetes by the presence of oval shaped papillate sporangia with short pedicles and spherical oogonia with narrow stalks (Widmer, 2014).	 cacao Phytophthora palmivora

Root lesion nematodes infect a great variety of hosts. Pratylenchus penetrans alone has over 350 host plants. They include agricultural crops such as soybeans, potatoes, corn, bananas, and wheat. The genus is found most often in corn. Signs of disease are similar in most plants and generally include necrotic lesions of the roots. The lesions can also be entrances for pathogenic bacteria and fungi, which produce secondary infections. Above ground the plant becomes stunted, chlorotic, and wilted, and it often dies. A crop field may be patchy as plants wither and die. Root lesion nematodes can cause significant yield losses.	 cacao Pratylenchus

Rosellinia bunodes is a facultative soil saprophyte capable of infecting a wide range of hosts, including native forest species and important agricultural crops like tea, citrus, coffee, yam, fig, rubber, cassava, banana, avocado, pepper, potato, cocoa, ginger, daffodils, yerba mate and poplar. New reports of susceptible hosts are also still occasionally reported. Outbreaks of black root rot in agricultural systems and the wild often occur in circular patches. Despite the pathogen's wide host range, disease signs and symptoms typically present in the same manner regardless of host species. Symptoms and disease progression have been likened to those caused by Phytophthora spp. and Armillaria spp.Importantly, R. bunodes is capable of infecting hosts at any age or developmental stage, from young seedlings to mature trees, and shows rapid root colonization abilities on susceptible hosts. The earliest symptoms are visible just seven days after inoculation in vitro as brown lesions on roots that progressively darken to black. Dark discoloration of vascular bundles is visible shortly thereafter.Once inside the vascular tissue, R. bunodes compromises xylem flow and transport of nutrients to aerial parts of the host resulting in chlorosis, wilting, dry die-back, leaf drop, and eventually host death. In controlled laboratory experiments, vegetative symptoms like chlorosis and wilting in two-year-old poplar (Populus deltoides) saplings were observed 14 days after inoculation, and field observations describe death of mature trees within 3–4 years. In 6-month-old coffee seedlings, 98% died within 10 days of inoculation with R. bunodes.Early signs of R. bunodes colonization include white, cottony growth on roots that also progressively darken with age. As mycelia grow, they form dense mats over roots and at the base of tree trunks that thicken into irregular knots and aggregate into rhizomorphs. Over time mycelia darken to form black, branching strands firmly attached to host roots; occasionally black dots are visible before this color change, indicating production of asexual and sexual survival structures. Darkened, mature hyphae can also develop and function as microsclerotia, however germination of microsclerotia has never been achieved in a laboratory setting nor observed in nature.	 cacao Rosellinia bunodes

There are many strains of Verticillium dahliae which are categorized into vegetative compatibility groups (VCG). These groups comprise strains that are able to exchange genetic material via anastomosis. Each VCG affects a few or only one host and the virulence of the pathogen varies by host. While individual V. dahliae strains are relatively host specific, as a species it has a wide range.Verticillium dahliae has a very wide host range, affecting over 300 plant species. Some susceptible crops include Brussels sprouts, cabbage, eggplant, cucumbers, mint, pepper, potatoes, pumpkin, spinach, tomato, watermelon, honeydew, and cantaloupe. Of these, tomato, potato, and eggplant have resistant or tolerant varieties.Symptoms of this disease are seen throughout the plant. Leaves may have abnormal coloration, necrotic areas, wilt, and/or fall off the plant. The stem may have discolored vascular tissue, exhibit rosetting (shortened internodes of the plant caused by reduced growth, resulting in a rosette-like appearance), and/or be stunted. Early senescence and dieback may also occur.Microsclerotia can be seen under a lens as small black structures in the vasculature of living and dead plants. This feature can be used to distinguish V. dahliae from V. albo-atrum, the other verticillium wilt pathogen.	 cacao Verticillium dahliae

While it is common for the hosts not to show any symptoms of the pathogens influence, there are some symptoms that can occur in the hosts. The most prevalent symptoms of the ArMV are stunting of the plant and leaf flecking/molting and leaf enations. The symptoms will vary based on the type of rootstock, environmental conditions and variety.	 caneberries Arabis mosaic virus

Armillaria mellea typically infects hardwood trees and conifers but sometimes will infect non-woody monocots and a few herbaceous plants. There are few signs, and the ones that do exist are often hard to find. The most prominent sign is honey-colored mushrooms at the base of the infected plant. Additional signs include white, fan-shaped mycelia and black rhizomorphs with diameters between 1/32nd of an inch and 1/8th of an inch. These usually are not as noticeable because they occur beneath the bark and in the soil, respectively. The symptoms are much more numerous, including slower growth, dieback of branches, yellowing foliage, rotted wood at base and/or roots, external cankers, cracking bark, bleeding stem, leaf wilting, defoliation, and rapid death. Leaf wilting, defoliation, and dieback occur after the destruction of the cambium.	 caneberries Armillaria mellea

Symptoms include leaf roll, leaf yellowing, early dropping of leaves, stunted growth, and plant dieback. Plants can also be infected without exhibiting symptoms.	 caneberries Cherry leaf roll virus

Leaves become studded with projections or enations between the lateral veins and all along the midrib.  As a result, the leaves become deformed and folded, looking very narrow.  The face of the leaf has a bumpy texture as a result of the enations on the underside.Initial infections begin at the lower branches and patches of the tree will show symptoms.  Lateral (tree-to-tree) infection is slow and fruit production is reduced.  Severe infection may result in the death of the tree.	 caneberries Cherry rasp leaf virus

Colletotrichum acutatum has a broad host range, but is most important in strawberries. C.  acutatum on strawberries. The pathogen causes black spot of fruit, but can also be seen attacking the plant at its crowns, roots and leaves. After planting, stunting and yellowing as well as wilting may occur. General symptoms of the disease in other plants can also be seen on flowers, petioles, and roots.  Stems are also a prominent place to see symptoms. Lesions on the stem can appear dark colored, oval shaped, and possibly have immersed spots located on petioles and runners.  Once C.acutatum infects these parts of the plant, it can cause other diseases to unfold such as crown root rot, defoliation, bloom blight and fruit rot. Unfortunately, the most significant loss can be seen once the fruit is attacked. If the fruit is infected it will develop small brown spots (green fruit) or black spots (red fruit) and can expand throughout the fruits’ surface.	 caneberries Colletotrichum acutatum

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 caneberries Colletotrichum gloeosporioides

All brambles, especially black raspberries, are susceptible to cane blight. The causal agent for Cane Blight is the fungus Leptosphaeria coniothyrium.The infection spreads internally first, therefore outwardly noticeable symptoms typically do not appear quickly. Symptoms could be exposed by peeling back the xylem and looking at the internal plant tissue. Healthy tissue would appear green, whereas diseased tissue develop dark lesions and vascular streaking.By late summer or fall, well after the initial infection, dark red or purple lesions can appear near wounded sites. Sometimes, large cankers develop causing necrosis and death of the cane in the following year. In the spring buds may fail to break, lateral branches may appear wilted, or canes may die as the fruit begins to ripen. Canes can also break or appear brittle near infection sites.Signs of cane blight include small black raised specks, which are the sporocarps, or fruiting bodies called pycnidia and/or pseudothecia. In wet conditions, gray spore masses may appear and ooze from cankers on the cane or in dry conditions appear fuzzy and powdery.	 caneberries Coniothyrium fuckelii

This virus was first characterized in cucumbers (Cucumis sativus) showing mosaic symptoms in 1934, hence the name Cucumber mosaic. Since then, it has been found to infect a great variety of other plants. These include other vegetables such as squash, melons, peppers, eggplants, tomatoes, beans, carrots, celery, lettuce, spinach, beets, many ornamentals and bedding plants, such as Narcissus, and various weeds. Its presence has been confirmed on every continent of the world, including Antarctica.Symptoms seen with this virus include leaf mosaic or mottling (Fig. 1), yellowing, ringspots, stunting, and leaf, flower and fruit distortion. CMV also induces a type of symptom on leaves known as the "shoestring" effect on many host species. This effect causes young leaves to appear narrow and the entire plant to be stunted.Specifically, CMV can cause cucumbers to turn pale and bumpy. The leaves of these plants turn mosaic and their rugosity is often changed, making leaves wrinkled and misshapen. Growth of these plants is usually also stunted and produces few flowers. Often, cucumber fruits are oddly shaped, appear gray, and tested bitter. These appearances lead to them being referred to as "white pickles".Tomato plants are usually stunted and have poorly shaped leaves, or "fernleaf", when infected by CMV. Also certain strains of CMV can cause partial or total crop loss. CMV in peppers causes slightly different symptoms than the previously mentioned. Pepper plants often have severe foliar damage, shown as mosaic and necrotic rings. Often the peppers themselves are misshapen and contain chlorotic rings and spots. In celery, CMV causes streaking and spotting and can be often confused with symptoms of the celery mosaic virus. Symptoms of CMV in lettuce, such as chlorosis, plant stunting and often do not properly head, can be very similar to those of lettuce mosaic virus.CMV has also been identified in a lesser extent to a number of plant species. It is found to be a minor virus infecting Allium crops. The virus infection causes extensive malformation on garlic plants, and mild malformation to severe necrotic streaks on onion leaves. The severe damages on garlic plants and difficulty of aphids transmission of garlic isolate, were possible causal for the rare CMV on garlic. Genetically, the two onion isolates from Turkey (CMV-14.3Po and CMV-15.5Po) are highly similar to others isolated from various plant species in Mediterranean, European, and East Asian countries. CMV was also detected on American beautyberry, an important wildlife and pollinator food source plant native to North America.In plant tissue this virus makes characteristic viral inclusion bodies which can be diagnostic. They are hexagonal in shape (Fig. 2) and stain both in a protein stain and a nucleic acid stain. The inclusions can also be rhomboidal, may appear hollow (Fig. 2) and can form larger aggregates. The inclusions are not uniformly distributed and can be found in epidermal (Fig. 2), mesophyll, and stomatal cells. These inclusions are made up of virus particles.			 caneberries Cucumber mosaic virus

A raspberry leaf spot infection initially causes dark green circular spots on the upper side of young leaves, which will eventually turn tan or gray. These spots are typically 1–2 millimetres (0.039–0.079 in) in diameter, but can get as big as 4–6 millimetres (0.16–0.24 in).  These spots can also fall out, causing a shot effect. More severe infections can cause leaves to drop prematurely in the late summer and early fall. Due to the loss of leaves, infected raspberries are more susceptible to winter injury. As a result, raspberry leaf spot may not only reduce yield in season, but cause lasting consequence into the next season.Raspberry leaf spot is also typically more severe in primocanes (first year canes) than floricanes (second year canes). The symptoms of raspberry leaf spot are similar to the symptoms of Raspberry Anthracnose. The best way to differentiate between the two fungal diseases is to inspect the stems of the plant. Stem lesions are indicative of raspberry anthracnose. In 1943, it was discovered that S. rubi only infects raspberry plants. Previously, the pathogen had also been blamed for leaf spot on blackberry and dewberry. However, Demaree and Wilcox demonstrated the raspberry pathogen could not cause leaf spots on blackberry or dewberry. The similar pathogens were also differentiated as perfect and imperfect, as the blackberry leaf spot pathogen didn't have a known sexual stage.	 caneberries Cylindrosporium rubi

All brambles, especially black raspberries, are susceptible to cane blight. The causal agent for Cane Blight is the fungus Leptosphaeria coniothyrium.The infection spreads internally first, therefore outwardly noticeable symptoms typically do not appear quickly. Symptoms could be exposed by peeling back the xylem and looking at the internal plant tissue. Healthy tissue would appear green, whereas diseased tissue develop dark lesions and vascular streaking.By late summer or fall, well after the initial infection, dark red or purple lesions can appear near wounded sites. Sometimes, large cankers develop causing necrosis and death of the cane in the following year. In the spring buds may fail to break, lateral branches may appear wilted, or canes may die as the fruit begins to ripen. Canes can also break or appear brittle near infection sites.Signs of cane blight include small black raised specks, which are the sporocarps, or fruiting bodies called pycnidia and/or pseudothecia. In wet conditions, gray spore masses may appear and ooze from cankers on the cane or in dry conditions appear fuzzy and powdery.	 caneberries Diapleella coniothyrium

Infection generally occurs in the late spring when the environment is wet and optimal for fungus to proliferate. Symptoms do not become visible until mid to late summer. Visible symptoms include purple and brown expansive lesions appearing below buds, leaves and the lower portion of the stem. leaflets that are infected have wedge-shaped brown patches. Infected leaflets may fall, leaving only the petiole and canes behind. During the next season, branch growth from diseased canes will often be weak and wilted.	 caneberries Didymella applanata

Tissues affected by the symptoms of Erwinia amylovora include blossoms, fruits, shoots, and branches of apple (Pomoideae), pear, and many other rosaceous plants. All symptoms are above ground and are typically easy to recognize. Symptoms on blossoms include water soaking of the floral receptacle, ovary, and peduncles. This results in a dull, gray-green appearance 1–2 weeks after petal fall, and eventually tissues will shrivel and turn black. The base of the blossom and young fruit show similar symptoms as infection spreads. Opaque white- or amber-colored droplets of bacterial ooze can be seen on the infected tissue in high humidity. Shoots show similar symptoms but these develop much more rapidly. A “Shepherd's Crook” can occur when the tip of the shoot wilts, and diseased shoot leaves typically have blackening along the mid-vein and before they die. When numerous, diseased shoots give the tree a blighted appearance. Infection of blossoms and shoots can spread to larger tree limbs. Branches will darken and become water soaked, eventually cracks will develop in bark. Wood under the bark will become streaked with black discoloration. Immature fruit forms water-soaked lesions and later turns black. Bacterial ooze can be found on these lesions. Severe infections result in fruit turning entirely black and shrivelling.	 caneberries Erwinia amylovora

In susceptible crops, any parts below the ground are liable to infection. The mycelium of the fungus forms a matted, felt-like purple covering which grows over the surface of the root. Soil particles adhere to this and small, dark-coloured sclerotia grow among the hyphae. A dry rot occurs and secondary rots may move in. Mycelial threads, often merging into strands, grow through the soil and infect nearby plants. A pink or brown mat of mycelial threads may grow above the soil surface. In affected plants, the aerial parts may wilt and have discoloured, stunted foliage.	 caneberries Helicobasidium brebissonii

All brambles, especially black raspberries, are susceptible to cane blight. The causal agent for Cane Blight is the fungus Leptosphaeria coniothyrium.The infection spreads internally first, therefore outwardly noticeable symptoms typically do not appear quickly. Symptoms could be exposed by peeling back the xylem and looking at the internal plant tissue. Healthy tissue would appear green, whereas diseased tissue develop dark lesions and vascular streaking.By late summer or fall, well after the initial infection, dark red or purple lesions can appear near wounded sites. Sometimes, large cankers develop causing necrosis and death of the cane in the following year. In the spring buds may fail to break, lateral branches may appear wilted, or canes may die as the fruit begins to ripen. Canes can also break or appear brittle near infection sites.Signs of cane blight include small black raised specks, which are the sporocarps, or fruiting bodies called pycnidia and/or pseudothecia. In wet conditions, gray spore masses may appear and ooze from cankers on the cane or in dry conditions appear fuzzy and powdery.	 caneberries Leptosphaeria coniothyrium

The foliar symptoms that can be found include purple leaf spots along with yellow and tan centers. These can be found on the upper surface of the leaf and can resemble Septoria leaf spot. On the lower surface of the leaf yellow to orange pustules will be surrounded by a purple tinge. These can resemble cane and leaf rust. The leaves that are severely infected can start to dehydrate as well as start to curl. The leaves that are older and closer to the cane will get infected first and can die as well. The flowers and the fruits that are infected may fail to ripen. Stem infections as well as the continuous defoliation may cause the dieback of the canes. During the summer and fall the infected leaves can start to develop black pustules otherwise known as telia among the uredinia.	 caneberries Phragmidium violaceum

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 caneberries Phymatotrichopsis omnivora

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 caneberries Phymatotrichum omnivorum

Phytophthora cactorum has an extremely wide host range, and can infect over 200 species or 160 genera of trees, ornamentals, and fruit crops. In general, P. cactorum is capable of infecting both young and old plants, and causes root rots and crown rots of the many genera it infects. Although the symptoms this pathogen produces varies between the types of organisms it infects, in general disease occurs during periods that are both wet and warm. Furthermore, most infections are caused by zoospores entering the plant through wounds.: 34 On older trees, P. cactorum causes the formation of sap exuding dark colored cankers on the trunks of trees, as well as leaf size and number reduction, chlorosis, and dieback of branches. The diagnosis of a P. cactorum infection of trees, is based on the identification of symptoms, in particular the oozing cankers, and confirmation of symptoms in a diagnosis lab or utilization of a field ELISA detection kit. P. cactorum can be a major problem in apple orchards, as it can cause crown, collar, and root rots in apple trees. When infecting apple trees, the organism can attack through wounds either above or below the soil line, impairing phloem and root function, and causing stunting, foliar disorders, and death after several years. Furthermore, because the pathogen causes damage to the phloem of the tree, one diagnostic method is to check for necrotic phloem tissue at the base of the tree which will be orange to red-brown in the early stages and dark brown in the later stages of infection.A good example of P. cactorum causing foliar disease is on ginseng. Foliar disease of ginseng usually occurs during May and early June, causing the leaves to become transparent and papery. Ginseng foliar infection occurs through the rain splash dispersal of spores from the soil onto above ground wounds. Once infected, P. cactorum works its way down to the roots, rotting them and killing the plant.P. cactorum is also one of the causal agents of black rot on orchids. When infecting orchids, this organism first produces small black lesions on the pseudobulbs of the orchid, which then enlarge and may engulf the entire pseudobulb, leaf, or move through the rhizomes to other portions of the plant prior to killing it. Diagnosis of orchid black rot by P. cactorum is through the identification of lemon-shaped zoosporangia with either a papilla or a short pedicel, the presence of oospores, or molecular identification. Since there are multiple species of Phytophthora that are capable of causing disease on orchids, classification only to the genus level is required for proper prescription of disease management techniques.Crown rot or root rot of strawberries is a common example of diseases of fruit crops caused by P. cactorum. On strawberries, P. cactorum infects the roots and the base of the plant causing stunting and reduced leaf size, with possible complete plant collapse later in the season. Similarly to apple trees, crown rots of strawberries caused by P. cactorum can be partially diagnosed by cutting the crown of the plant and observing brown vascular tissues, and root rots by brown or black stunted roots.Leather rot of strawberry is an additional disease affecting strawberry plants, with P. cactorum being the causal agent. Symptoms of this disease include brown patches or green patches with a brown border in immature fruit, with infected mature fruit displaying a purple to brown color, and becoming hard, leathery, or even mummified. Signs include visible mycelium inside of hollow infected berries, as well as mycelium on the surface of berries.  Infected fruit often has an unpleasant taste and odor, which is diagnostic. 	 caneberries Phytophthora cactorum

The host range for Phytophythora cinnamomi is very broad. It is distributed worldwide and causes disease on hundreds of hosts. The disease affects a range of economic groups, including food crops such as avocado and pineapple as well as trees and woody ornamentals such as Fraser firs, shortleaf pines, loblolly pines, azaleas, camellia, boxwood, causing root rot and dieback. It is a root pathogen that causes root rot and death of host plants. Some symptoms include: wilting, decreased fruit size, decrease in yield, collar rot, gum exudation, necrosis, leaf chlorosis, leaf curl, and stem cankers. Another symptom is that it can cause dieback of young shoots and may interfere with transpiration of roots to shoots. Older plants may not exhibit symptoms or may display only mild dieback despite having severe root rot.	 caneberries Phytophthora cinnamomi

This species is reported to be pathogenic on grandiflora petunia (Petunia × atkinsiana). It causes root rot, shoot rot and shanking in tulips. It also infects blue daze (Evolvulus glomeratus), dusty miller (Jacobaea maritima), Barberton daisy (Gerbera jamesonii), and garden verbena (Verbena × hybrida). Like its relative Phytophtora cambivora, it can cause ink disease of chestnuts (Castanea sativa).The species is a cause of foot rot in tomatoes, causing discoloration and lesion in the stem. Progression of lesions leads to girdling, root system rot and plant collapse. Foliage will not be affected until plant stem has become girdled.	 caneberries Phytophthora cryptogea

P. erythroseptica is host specific, and typically only infects potatoes in moist soils. However, there are related pink rot species that infect raspberries, tomatoes, clover, and asparagus. Symptoms of the disease in potatoes can be seen on the tubers, above ground vegetation, as well as the roots of the potatoes. Tuber symptoms are the most obvious to diagnose. Occasionally, a darkened color can be observed on the skin covering the infected portion of the tuber. When a suspected tuber is cut open, a dividing line can be seen between the healthy tuber tissue and the infected tissue. Infection spreads from the stolon end of tubers and usually leads to a rubbery or spongy consistency. Pink rot is not considered a slimy soft rot, since most of the tissue stays intact The pinkish-salmon color of infected tubers can be seen once the phenolic compounds inside the tubers are exposed to oxygen for 15–30 minutes. After this time period the infected tissue turns to a brownish-blackish color  Aboveground symptoms can include chlorosis, stunting, and wilting of the plants. Roots and stolons can become blackened as well. The pink color is often used as the main symptom when making a firm diagnosis. The infected tubers often are watery and have a distinct smell. The potatoes plants themselves can sometimes be wilted however most symptoms are seen on the tuber. The majority of diseased tubers get infected while in storage. The majority of symptoms are seen inside the tuber except for the rubbery appearance that the outside may have. There are often cases that show symptoms other than rotting, these are often due to a pathogen other than P. erythroseptica infecting the tuber along with pink rot.	 caneberries Phytophthora erythroseptica

Root lesion nematodes infect a great variety of hosts. Pratylenchus penetrans alone has over 350 host plants. They include agricultural crops such as soybeans, potatoes, corn, bananas, and wheat. The genus is found most often in corn. Signs of disease are similar in most plants and generally include necrotic lesions of the roots. The lesions can also be entrances for pathogenic bacteria and fungi, which produce secondary infections. Above ground the plant becomes stunted, chlorotic, and wilted, and it often dies. A crop field may be patchy as plants wither and die. Root lesion nematodes can cause significant yield losses.	 caneberries Pratylenchus

Root lesion nematode has a wide host range, including hosts like apple, cherry, conifers, roses, tomato, potato, corn, onion and sugarbeets, and ornamentals such as Narcissus. More than 164 hosts for P. penetrans have been recorded.  In the host range there are some hosts that are susceptible, such as wheat, oat, field pea, faba bean, and chickpea, and some that are moderately susceptible, such as barley and canola.Some general symptoms that are produced on infected plants include poor growth, fruit spot, and chlorotic foliage.  These secondary symptoms are often due to plant root stress.  These make it rather difficult to diagnose nematode diseases in general.  The roots when infected produce necrotic lesions, which are darkened areas of dead tissue, on the surface and throughout the cortex of the infected roots.  These lesions turn the root to reddish-brown to black and are initially spotty.  As the nematode continues to feed, the lesions can coalesce to become large necrotic areas of tissue that may eventually girdle the root. The population size of the nematode affects the degree of symptoms.  Low to moderate populations may cause no visible above ground symptoms, while high populations can lead to stunting, nutrient and water deficiencies, and eventual die-back of the plant.  On potato, infection of root lesion nematode can cause a secondary invasion by Verticillium dahliae leading to Potato Early Dying.  Onions are another important host of P. penetrans.  Onions are an important vegetable for consumption in the United States and upon infection the nematodes can limit yield and quality of the bulbs.  Populations of more than 0.01 nematode per cubic centimeter of soil resulted in injury to onions.  There is a negative relationship between the increasing inoculum levels on onion root and top fresh weight at harvest.	 caneberries Pratylenchus penetrans

In susceptible crops, any parts below the ground are liable to infection. The mycelium of the fungus forms a matted, felt-like purple covering which grows over the surface of the root. Soil particles adhere to this and small, dark-coloured sclerotia grow among the hyphae. A dry rot occurs and secondary rots may move in. Mycelial threads, often merging into strands, grow through the soil and infect nearby plants. A pink or brown mat of mycelial threads may grow above the soil surface. In affected plants, the aerial parts may wilt and have discoloured, stunted foliage.	 caneberries Rhizoctonia crocorum

The pathogen that causes powdery mildew of hops was once considered to be Sphaerotheca macularis, which is capable of infecting many plants; however, in recent years, the pathogen that causes powdery mildew of hops has been taxonomically classified as Podosphaera macularis. This ascomycete is only known to be pathogenic on hop plants, including both ornamental and wild hops, and Cannabis sativa. The host range of many Podosphaera macularis strains is restricted by the existence of resistant hop varieties, such as the “Nugget” variety of Washington state and Oregon, although in recent years, resistance within this hop variety has been overcome in the laboratory. When disease does occur, early symptoms include chlorotic spots on the leaves of hop plants. Spots may fade to gray or white as the season progresses. Signs include white clusters of hyphae, which are often present on the leaves, and in some cases can infect the cone itself. If this infection occurs, a brown, necrotic lesion may develop. When both mating types exist within a population, chleistothecia can form and are visible as small, black dots on the undersides of leaves.	 caneberries Sphaerotheca macularis

A raspberry leaf spot infection initially causes dark green circular spots on the upper side of young leaves, which will eventually turn tan or gray. These spots are typically 1–2 millimetres (0.039–0.079 in) in diameter, but can get as big as 4–6 millimetres (0.16–0.24 in).  These spots can also fall out, causing a shot effect. More severe infections can cause leaves to drop prematurely in the late summer and early fall. Due to the loss of leaves, infected raspberries are more susceptible to winter injury. As a result, raspberry leaf spot may not only reduce yield in season, but cause lasting consequence into the next season.Raspberry leaf spot is also typically more severe in primocanes (first year canes) than floricanes (second year canes). The symptoms of raspberry leaf spot are similar to the symptoms of Raspberry Anthracnose. The best way to differentiate between the two fungal diseases is to inspect the stems of the plant. Stem lesions are indicative of raspberry anthracnose. In 1943, it was discovered that S. rubi only infects raspberry plants. Previously, the pathogen had also been blamed for leaf spot on blackberry and dewberry. However, Demaree and Wilcox demonstrated the raspberry pathogen could not cause leaf spots on blackberry or dewberry. The similar pathogens were also differentiated as perfect and imperfect, as the blackberry leaf spot pathogen didn't have a known sexual stage.	 caneberries Sphaerulina rubi

Leaves become patchy and reddish in color. There are decreased yields.	 caneberries Strawberry latent ringspot virus

TSV has been reported worldwide in North and South America, Europe, India, Japan, Australia, New Zealand and South America. TSV has a wide host range including both monocots and dicots.  Economically important crop hosts include peanuts, sunflower, soybean, cranberry, cotton, chickpea and mung beans.  As with many plant viruses, diagnosis is very difficult because TSV has very wide host range and has different effects depending on the host being infected. Symptoms of TSV may include black streaks on stems and leaves, stunted growth, chlorosis, leaf mosaic, lodging, and deformed growing tips, to name a few. On tobacco plants, TSV causes chlorosis, with a unique pattern of white or dark necrotic leaf tissue close to the veins of the leaf.  As its name implies, necrotic streaks are found on leaf veins of infected plants.  Symptoms are strongly influenced by temperature.  For example, plants experiencing a temperature of 20° Celsius will develop small necrotic spots while at temperatures above 30° Celsius, necrotic spots will become large necrotic arcs. Symptoms are not sufficient to correctly identify TSV - serology and PCR techniques are required.	 caneberries Tobacco streak virus

There are many strains of Verticillium dahliae which are categorized into vegetative compatibility groups (VCG). These groups comprise strains that are able to exchange genetic material via anastomosis. Each VCG affects a few or only one host and the virulence of the pathogen varies by host. While individual V. dahliae strains are relatively host specific, as a species it has a wide range.Verticillium dahliae has a very wide host range, affecting over 300 plant species. Some susceptible crops include Brussels sprouts, cabbage, eggplant, cucumbers, mint, pepper, potatoes, pumpkin, spinach, tomato, watermelon, honeydew, and cantaloupe. Of these, tomato, potato, and eggplant have resistant or tolerant varieties.Symptoms of this disease are seen throughout the plant. Leaves may have abnormal coloration, necrotic areas, wilt, and/or fall off the plant. The stem may have discolored vascular tissue, exhibit rosetting (shortened internodes of the plant caused by reduced growth, resulting in a rosette-like appearance), and/or be stunted. Early senescence and dieback may also occur.Microsclerotia can be seen under a lens as small black structures in the vasculature of living and dead plants. This feature can be used to distinguish V. dahliae from V. albo-atrum, the other verticillium wilt pathogen.	 caneberries Verticillium dahliae

The symptoms that plants exhibit in response to the pathogenicity of Xiphinema americanum are similar to those of other migratory ectoparasitic nematodes of roots. It is common to see poor growth and or stunting of the plant, yellowing or wilting of the foliage, and reduced root systems which can include root necrosis, lack of feeder or secondary roots, and occasional tufts of stubby rootlets.Young, shortleaved yellow pine trees with moderate swelling of roots with clusters of short, stubby branches were the first demonstration of X. americanum pathogenicity in 1955. X. americanum can also cause severe effects on foliage, sometimes causing chlorosis and complete defoliation as seen on Guatemalan coffee trees. The dagger nematode causes the devitalization of root tips and overall root death when they feed at the root tips and root sides of strawberry plants. Reddish-brown lesions that turn black and necrotic with time result at the sites of feeding, and result in reduced root systems and stunted tops.Xiphinema americanum is listed as a C-rated pest in California due to its wide host range of California crops. C-rated pests are widespread, and are of known economic or environmental detriment, according to The California Department of Food and Agriculture. Due to X. americanum's difficulty in maintaining high populations in frequently tilled soils (see Control), the dagger nematode is mainly an economic problem on biennial and perennial crops rather than annual crops (except for damage to emerging seedlings).	 caneberries Xiphinema americanum

White rust can infect plants both locally and systemically. On stems, leaves, and inflorescences it appears as a mass of white or cream-coloured pustules, each about 2 mm (0.08 in) in diameter, packed with sporangia. New pustules are borne in radial fashion, while older pustules coalesce to form a bigger pustules in the center. The systemic version causes distortion, abnormal growth forms, and sterile inflorescences. The abnormal growth forms are sometimes known as "stagheads". Infection with white rust predisposes a crop to develop downy mildew, caused by another oomycete plant pathogen Phytophthora nicotianae.	 canola Albugo candida

White rust can infect plants both locally and systemically. On stems, leaves, and inflorescences it appears as a mass of white or cream-coloured pustules, each about 2 mm (0.08 in) in diameter, packed with sporangia. New pustules are borne in radial fashion, while older pustules coalesce to form a bigger pustules in the center. The systemic version causes distortion, abnormal growth forms, and sterile inflorescences. The abnormal growth forms are sometimes known as "stagheads". Infection with white rust predisposes a crop to develop downy mildew, caused by another oomycete plant pathogen Phytophthora nicotianae.	 canola Albugo cruciferarum

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 canola Alternaria alternata

Alternaria japonica affects its hosts in all stages of life. Infection causes a black or grey sunken lesion with a characteristic yellow border. On the leaves of some plants, infection can cause dark, water-soaked spots. The lesions can be observed anywhere on the plant. In seedlings, fungal lesions on the stem are a cause of damping-off. Infected seeds appear black or grey.	 canola Alternaria japonica

Hosts species include wheat, barley, oats, rye, triticale, turfgrasses and many other grass species found throughout the world.  Symptoms are found on lower leaves early in the season and upper leaves later in the season.  Lesions are usually elliptical and are initially chlorotic.  Later, they develop a brown margin with a white center and split longitudinally. Pycnidia can be found within the lesions are generally black in color.	 canola Ascochyta

Aster yellows affects a long list of plant species including native plants, annual flowering plants, ornamentals, weeds, and vegetables crops. The largest family affected is the Asteraceae, and ornamental plants commonly infected are asters, marigolds, coreopsis, sunflowers, and purple coneflower.  Regarding vegetable crops, onion, lettuce, celery, and carrot are affected with the latter suffering the greatest losses.The range of characteristic symptoms varies by the phytoplasma strain, timing of infection, plant species, temperature, age, and size of the plant. The symptoms can be mistaken for herbicide damage or virus symptoms.  They include vein clearing until the entire leaf becomes chlorotic, stunting, deformation, virescence (greening of flowers), phyllody (development of leaf-like flower petals), reddening of foliage, reduced root system, and sterility.  Aster yellows does not typically kill perennial host plants. The symptoms caused by the disease are exacerbated by hot climates while some plants in cooler climates may be asymptomatic.Characteristic symptoms specific to the carrot include initial vein clearing and chlorosis, followed by production of many adventitious shoots, with the tops looking like a witches’-broom.  The internodes of such shoots are short as are the leaf petioles.  Young leaves are smaller and dry up while the petioles of older leaves twist and break off.  Any remaining older leaves turn bronze or red late in the season.  Floral parts are deformed and roots are smaller, abnormally shaped, and have woolly secondary roots.  The carrot roots are predisposed to soft rots in the field and storage and taste unpleasant to the consumer.	 canola Aster yellows

An infection from Mycosphaerella brassicicola typically presents itself on older leaves, though can be seen on younger foliage with more severe infections. Although infection is most noted on the leaves of the host, spores are technically able to cause disease on any above ground portion of the plant. Lesions tend to appear around 10–14 days following fungal infection. The ring lesions produced by ascospore infection will terminate at the veins of leaves, at times restricting the characteristic circular nature of the signs of Mycosphaerella brassicicola. The ring symptoms may be green-brown or grey-black in color then will progress until grey when dry, turning black when wet. The outer edge typically form a ring of chlorosis around the necrotic tissue within the lesion. The rings originate as 3-5mm diameter spots that can potentially grow up to 2–3 cm. If the infection spreads far enough it may lead to premature defoliation of the host.	 canola Asteromella brassicae

There are a variety of hosts including but not limited to; banana, beans, cabbage, carrot, cassava, coffee, corn, cotton, onion, other crucifers, pepper, potato, sweet potato and tomato. Pandanus conoideus and karuka (Pandanus julianettii) get bacterial soft rot and necrosis on the leaves from Pectobacterium carotovorum subsp. carotovorum. For each host there are different symptoms displayed. Most symptoms are along the lines of watery and soft decay of the tissue. Cabbage and crucifers' symptoms start where the tissue makes contact with the soil. Often there is a change in color and in the case of a carrot, the whole taproot can be decayed leaving just the epidermis. Sweet potatoes show clear lesions that grow rapidly leaving a recognizable watery and soft, oozy tissue where only the peel remains intact.Potatoes experience a cream to tan colored tuber that becomes very soft and watery. A characteristic black border separates the diseased area and the healthy tissue. Only when the secondary organism invades the infected tissue does that decay become slimy with a foul odor. Like the carrot, the whole tuber can be consumed leaving just the epidermis in the soil. The foliage becomes weak and chlorotic with upward turned leaves and lesions on the stem. The stem also rots and becomes mushy with its colorless or brown lesions.	 canola Bacterial soft rot

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 canola Colletotrichum gloeosporioides

This virus was first characterized in cucumbers (Cucumis sativus) showing mosaic symptoms in 1934, hence the name Cucumber mosaic. Since then, it has been found to infect a great variety of other plants. These include other vegetables such as squash, melons, peppers, eggplants, tomatoes, beans, carrots, celery, lettuce, spinach, beets, many ornamentals and bedding plants, such as Narcissus, and various weeds. Its presence has been confirmed on every continent of the world, including Antarctica.Symptoms seen with this virus include leaf mosaic or mottling (Fig. 1), yellowing, ringspots, stunting, and leaf, flower and fruit distortion. CMV also induces a type of symptom on leaves known as the "shoestring" effect on many host species. This effect causes young leaves to appear narrow and the entire plant to be stunted.Specifically, CMV can cause cucumbers to turn pale and bumpy. The leaves of these plants turn mosaic and their rugosity is often changed, making leaves wrinkled and misshapen. Growth of these plants is usually also stunted and produces few flowers. Often, cucumber fruits are oddly shaped, appear gray, and tested bitter. These appearances lead to them being referred to as "white pickles".Tomato plants are usually stunted and have poorly shaped leaves, or "fernleaf", when infected by CMV. Also certain strains of CMV can cause partial or total crop loss. CMV in peppers causes slightly different symptoms than the previously mentioned. Pepper plants often have severe foliar damage, shown as mosaic and necrotic rings. Often the peppers themselves are misshapen and contain chlorotic rings and spots. In celery, CMV causes streaking and spotting and can be often confused with symptoms of the celery mosaic virus. Symptoms of CMV in lettuce, such as chlorosis, plant stunting and often do not properly head, can be very similar to those of lettuce mosaic virus.CMV has also been identified in a lesser extent to a number of plant species. It is found to be a minor virus infecting Allium crops. The virus infection causes extensive malformation on garlic plants, and mild malformation to severe necrotic streaks on onion leaves. The severe damages on garlic plants and difficulty of aphids transmission of garlic isolate, were possible causal for the rare CMV on garlic. Genetically, the two onion isolates from Turkey (CMV-14.3Po and CMV-15.5Po) are highly similar to others isolated from various plant species in Mediterranean, European, and East Asian countries. CMV was also detected on American beautyberry, an important wildlife and pollinator food source plant native to North America.In plant tissue this virus makes characteristic viral inclusion bodies which can be diagnostic. They are hexagonal in shape (Fig. 2) and stain both in a protein stain and a nucleic acid stain. The inclusions can also be rhomboidal, may appear hollow (Fig. 2) and can form larger aggregates. The inclusions are not uniformly distributed and can be found in epidermal (Fig. 2), mesophyll, and stomatal cells. These inclusions are made up of virus particles.			 canola Cucumber mosaic virus

Erysiphe cruciferarum exhibits typical powdery mildew characteristics, appearing as small radiating, diffuse colonies of superficial white mycelium on the surface of the leaf; usually both sides of the leaf show white, powdery fungal growth. Additional signs of the pathogen would be that its conidia are singly produced (not in chains) and are ovoid to cylindrical in shape, ranging from 42.5–57 µm × 14.5–20.5 µm in size. Also, E. cruciferarum has rather variable appressoria, differing from lobed to simple, and haustoria that are multilobed. Severe, advanced infections produce a dense white powdery covering of leaves, stems, and seed crop pods. On cauliflower and cabbage, heavily diseased plants show chlorosis, early defoliation, and necrosis of the tips of young leaves. Colonies may be gray and restricted in size on resistant cultivars as the host reaction produces black speckling beneath the colony. On Brussels sprout, gray or purple symptoms occur on the stems, while on the sprouts there may be white colonies or fine black speckling in radiating lines.Disease diagnosis is determined on the basis of anamorph morphology and host.	 canola Erysiphe cruciferarum

Symptoms appear as dirty white, circular, floury patches on either sides of the leaves.Under favourable environmental conditions, entire leaves, stems, floral parts and pods are affected.The whole leaf may be covered with powdery mass.If persistent, mild chlorosis or necrosis can also occur.	 canola Erysiphe polygoni

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 canola Glomerella cingulata

Leptosphaeria maculans causes phoma stem canker or blackleg. Symptoms generally include basal stem cankers, small grey oval lesions on the leaf tissue and root rot (as the fungus can directly penetrate roots). L. maculans infects a wide variety of Brassica crops including cabbage (Brassica oleracea) and oilseed rape (Brassica napus). L. maculans is especially virulent on Brassica napus. The first dramatic epidemic of L. maculans occurred in Wisconsin on cabbage. The disease is diagnosed by the presence of small black pycnidia which occur on the edge of the leaf lesions. The presence of these pycnidia allow for this disease to be distinguished from Alternaria brassicae, another foliar pathogen with similar lesions, but no pycnidia.	 canola Leptosphaeria maculans

One of the most harmful seed and soil borne pathogens, Macrophomina phaseolina is a fungus that infects nearly 500 plant species in more than 100 families. The hosts include: peanut, cabbage, pepper, chickpea, soybean, sunflower, sweet potato, alfalfa, sesame, potato, sorghum, wheat, and corn, among others. The identification of isolates of M. phaseolina is usually based on morphology and efforts to divide the pathogen into subspecies, but because there are wide intraspecific variations in the phenotype of the isolates, these criteria are often not reliable. The failure to correctly detect and identify M. phaseolina using conventional culture-based morphological techniques has led scientists to develop nucleic acid-based molecular approaches, such as highly sensitive and specific polymerase chain reaction-based methods. Researchers have also recently created species-specific oligonucleotide primers and digoxigenin-labeled probes in hopes of better identifying and detecting M. phaseolina.The pathogen M. phaseolina affects the fibrovascular system of the roots and basal internodes of its host, impeding the transport of water and nutrients to the upper parts of the plant. As a result, progressive wilting, premature dying, loss of vigor, and reduced yield are characteristic symptoms of M. phaseolina infection. The fungus also causes many diseases like damping off, seedling blight, collar rot, stem rot, charcoal rot, basal stem rot, and root rot. Although brown lesions may form on the hypocotyls or emerging seedlings, many symptoms occur during or after flowering, including grey discoloration of the stem and taproots, shredding of plant tissue in the stem and top of the taproot, and hollowing of the stem. Small black dots may form beneath the epidermis of the lower stem and in the taproot, giving the stems and roots a charcoal-sprinkled appearance. When the epidermis is removed, small and black microsclerotia (a sign of the disease) may be so numerous that they give a greyish-black tint to the plant tissue. In addition, reddish-brown discoloration and black streaks can form in the pith and vascular tissues of the root and stem.	 canola Macrophomina phaseolina

An infection from Mycosphaerella brassicicola typically presents itself on older leaves, though can be seen on younger foliage with more severe infections. Although infection is most noted on the leaves of the host, spores are technically able to cause disease on any above ground portion of the plant. Lesions tend to appear around 10–14 days following fungal infection. The ring lesions produced by ascospore infection will terminate at the veins of leaves, at times restricting the characteristic circular nature of the signs of Mycosphaerella brassicicola. The ring symptoms may be green-brown or grey-black in color then will progress until grey when dry, turning black when wet. The outer edge typically form a ring of chlorosis around the necrotic tissue within the lesion. The rings originate as 3-5mm diameter spots that can potentially grow up to 2–3 cm. If the infection spreads far enough it may lead to premature defoliation of the host.	 canola Mycosphaerella brassicicola

The infection first appears as conidiophores covering the upper and lower leaf surfaces. Other symptoms include lesions on spikelet, fungal growth on leaves, and necrosis on stems and leaves. Hyaloperonospora Parasitica has a very wide host range. It can infect garlic mustard, horseradish, cruciferous vegetables, Shepherd's purse, Cheiranthus spp., Cucurbits, purple vein rocket, treacle mustard, wallflower, spurges, candytuft, mustard plants, radish, and sweet alyssum.  Although it is not significantly damaging on any one specific plant, the damage of H. parasitica can cause major economic losses if not managed properly. The recommendation for management is weekly fungicide application.	 canola Peronospora parasitica

Leptosphaeria maculans causes phoma stem canker or blackleg. Symptoms generally include basal stem cankers, small grey oval lesions on the leaf tissue and root rot (as the fungus can directly penetrate roots). L. maculans infects a wide variety of Brassica crops including cabbage (Brassica oleracea) and oilseed rape (Brassica napus). L. maculans is especially virulent on Brassica napus. The first dramatic epidemic of L. maculans occurred in Wisconsin on cabbage. The disease is diagnosed by the presence of small black pycnidia which occur on the edge of the leaf lesions. The presence of these pycnidia allow for this disease to be distinguished from Alternaria brassicae, another foliar pathogen with similar lesions, but no pycnidia.	 canola Phoma lingam

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 canola Phymatotrichopsis omnivora

Pythium irregulare is an oomycete that causes pre- and post-emergence damping off, as well as root rot. Pre-emergence damping off occurs when P. irregulare infects seeds before they emerge, causing them to rot and turn brown, thus preventing successful growth. Alternatively, post-emergence damping off occurs when the oomycete infects just after the seed has germinated. This usually causes infection in the roots and stem which appears as water soaking and necrosis. Depending on the severity, plants may collapse or be severely stunted. In plants that are older and more established, P. irregulare causes root rot. This will initially cause necrotic lesions, which leads to chlorosis, reduced yield, poor growth, and stunting due to inadequate water and nutrient acquisition by the roots. Additionally, P. irregulare is often found coinfecting with other Pythium species. All three of these diseases caused by P. irregulare can be caused by other pathogens as well, so a disease diagnosis is not necessarily indicative of P. irregulareIn order to identify Pythium irregulare it is necessary to isolate the organism and observe it microscopically. First, it is important to identify that the microbe is an oomycete by looking for characteristics that are specific to oomycetes, such as coenocytic hyphae, zoospores, and oospores. After that, one can identify the microbe as being in the genera Pythium by observing disease symptoms, host range, as well as the presence of a vesicle, where zoospores form, which is attached to the sporangia. In contrast, most other oomycetes do not have a vesicle and the zoospores form in the sporangia. Finally, once the genera has been identified, it is helpful to use a dichotomous key to identify the species. Some of the key identifiers for P. irregulare include oogonia with irregular shaped, cylindrical projections, sporangia that occur singly, sporangia that are not filamentous, and oogonia smaller than 30 μm. There are also many genomic tests that can be done to determine species based on specific DNA markers. It is also important to note that many diagnosticians do not identify to the species level because it can be difficult to find all necessary microscopic structures and many management techniques can be applied to all Pythium species.Pythium irregulare has a very broad host range, including many agronomically and horticulturally important crops and is found on every continent except for Antarctica. P. irregulare infects over 200 species, including cereals, legumes, fruits, vegetables, and ornamentals. It differs from many other Pythium species in that it prefers cooler environments. A moist environment is also necessary for disease, which aids motility of spores. It is commonly found in both greenhouses and fields.	 canola Pythium irregulare

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 canola Rhizoctonia solani

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 canola Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 canola Thanatephorus cucumeris

The main host of V. longisporum is canola. However, it can also affect brassica type plants. These include cabbage, broccoli, mustard, and cauliflower. It is common for Verticillium spp. to be virulent to more than one host.Symptoms of wilts caused by V. longisporum include leaf wilting, necrosis, and stunting. Brown stripes on the Canola plant also become visible as it is produced. As the Canola plant matures, peeling the top layer back reveals microsclerotia grown from the fungus. The wilts caused by V. longisporum are identified based on the main symptom of wilting. When the pathogen enters the plant, it clogs the xylem and cause key nutrients to not reach stems or leaves, which cause a wilt. Another key feature of the pathogen is that symptoms are typically found on outer or lower parts of the plant in a localized area. Most plants can live with the disease based on the severity. Older plants, especially trees, will have an increased chance of survival while younger plants have a higher susceptibility of death caused by the disease. If a plant has a pre-existing disease, the chance of being infected and dying from the V. longisporum increases.	 canola Verticillium longisporum

Alternaria dianthi can infect healthy plants, and favors humid, warm environments. The multicolored circular spots can grow to infect entire plants, resulting in wilting or death. These spots tend to be smaller than one centimeter, but can be larger, especially around stems. The cankers formed by A. dianthi spread through the stomata of leaf cells, and generally lead to yellowing, wilting, and death of the leaves of infected plants.	 carnation Alternaria dianthi

B. caryophylli infects many different species of the Dianthus plant. The species Dianthus barbatus (Sweet William) and Dianthus alwoodii (Allwoodii Hybrids) can be infected through induced artificial inoculation in a lab setting, however, the pathogen only naturally infects the species D. caryophyllus (carnation). If infected, the pathogen induces symptoms on the host such as the discoloration of leaves and stems; they become grayish-green with subsequent yellowing. This initial leaf and stem discoloration is usually followed by plant wilting and death. Stem bases may also show internodal stem cracking, developing into small areas of dead tissue, which grow slowly over years (cankers). Cutting diseased stems often reveals brownish-yellow bacterial ooze.  The wilting of the plant signifies the presence of rotten roots. This causes a significant decrease in the plants ability to anchor itself into the soil. Symptoms can take up to 2–3 years to surface. Visual symptoms are most readily seen in mature plants by inspection of aerial parts. Although there may be an extended period of latency, once plants begin showing symptoms, death typically occurs within 1–2 months. The contraction of Bacterial Wilt of Carnation is often followed by secondary fungal invasions and disease.	 carnation Burkholderia caryophylli

D. dadantii is phytopathogenic bacterium causing soft rot diseases on many host plants including some which are economically important. D. dadantii, more commonly known as: soft rot, brown rot or blackleg, causes characteristic symptoms associated with other bacterial wilts, causing final diagnosis to be difficult. The pathogen primarily seeks to attack the plant's xylem vessels located in leaves, stems, blossoms and storage organs of herbaceous plants. D. dadantii is able to infect hosts at any point in its life cycle. In addition to symptoms of wilt, the disease appears as sunken and cracked external lesions also having a brown interior in cross section in subterranean bulbs and tubers Diseased plants will display a variety of symptoms including: wilting, stunting and vascular discoloration of the stems. Early symptoms include water soaked lesions at the site of infection, gradually expanding chlorotic leaves and loss of turgor in tissues. The intensity of D. dadantii colonization relates to the amount of disease and degree of damage. The pathogen is very successful at infiltrating host tissues due to the many pectinases responsible for disassembly of plant cell wall polysaccharides. Once the cell wall is degraded cellular structure collapses and this cell maceration gives a characteristic "water-soaked" or rotted appearance. D. dadantii grow intercellularly, continuing to degrade cells and colonize, until it eventually reaches xylem tissues. Upon reaching the xylem vessels D. dadantii possesses the ability to spread to new regions of the host and other areas may begin to display symptoms. Colonization within the xylem restricts flow of water causing loss of turgor pressure and wilting of foliage and stems. Restricted movement of important plant compounds eventually lead to death of the host.	 carnation Erwinia chrysanthemi

The pathogen is capable of causing a variety of diseases: head blight or 'scab' on wheat (Triticum), barley (Hordeum), rice (Oryza), oats (Avena), and Gibberella stalk and ear rot disease on maize (Zea). Additionally, the fungus may infect other plant species without causing any disease symptoms.MaizeIn Gibberella stalk rot, the leaves on early-infected plants will turn a dull greyish-green, and the lower internodes will soften and turn a tan to dark-brown. A pink-red discoloration occurs within the stalks of diseased tissue. Shredding of the pith may reveal small, round, black perithecia on the stalks. Gibberella (red) ear rot can have a reddish mold that is often at the ear tip. The infection occurs by colonizing corn silk and symptoms first occur at the ear's apex. The white mycelium turns from pink to red over time, eventually covering the entire ear. Ears that become infected early don't fully develop the reddish mold near the ear tip, as the mold grows between the husks and ear.RiceGibberella zeae can turn affected seeds red and cause brown discoloration in certain areas on the seed or the entire seed surface. The surface of husks develop white spots that later become yellow and salmon or carmine. Infected grains are light, shrunken and brittle. Stem nodes begin to rot and wilt, eventually causing them to turn black and disintegrate when they are infected by the fungal pathogen.WheatBrown, dark purple-black necrotic lesions will form on the outer surface of the spikelets, what the wheat ear breaks up into. The lesions may be referred to as scabs, but this is not to be confused and associated with other scab diseases such as those with different host and pathogen. Head blight is visible before the spikes mature. Spikelets begin to appear water-soaked before the loss of chlorophyll, which gives a white straw color. Peduncles that are directly under the inflorescence can become discolored into a brown-purple color. Tissues of the inflorescence typically become blighted into a bleached tan appearance, and the grain within it atrophies. The awn will become deformed, twisted and curve in a downward direction.BarleyInfections on barley are not always visible in the field. Similar to wheat, infected spikelets show a browning or water-soaked appearance. The infected kernels display a tan to dark brown discoloration. During long periods of wetness, pink to salmon-orange spore masses can be seen on the infected spikelets and kernels. The cortical lesions of infected seeds become a reddish-brown in cool, moist soil. Warm soil can cause head blight to occur after emergence, and crown and basal culm rot can be observed in later plant development.	 carnation Fusarium graminearum

The pathogen is capable of causing a variety of diseases: head blight or 'scab' on wheat (Triticum), barley (Hordeum), rice (Oryza), oats (Avena), and Gibberella stalk and ear rot disease on maize (Zea). Additionally, the fungus may infect other plant species without causing any disease symptoms.MaizeIn Gibberella stalk rot, the leaves on early-infected plants will turn a dull greyish-green, and the lower internodes will soften and turn a tan to dark-brown. A pink-red discoloration occurs within the stalks of diseased tissue. Shredding of the pith may reveal small, round, black perithecia on the stalks. Gibberella (red) ear rot can have a reddish mold that is often at the ear tip. The infection occurs by colonizing corn silk and symptoms first occur at the ear's apex. The white mycelium turns from pink to red over time, eventually covering the entire ear. Ears that become infected early don't fully develop the reddish mold near the ear tip, as the mold grows between the husks and ear.RiceGibberella zeae can turn affected seeds red and cause brown discoloration in certain areas on the seed or the entire seed surface. The surface of husks develop white spots that later become yellow and salmon or carmine. Infected grains are light, shrunken and brittle. Stem nodes begin to rot and wilt, eventually causing them to turn black and disintegrate when they are infected by the fungal pathogen.WheatBrown, dark purple-black necrotic lesions will form on the outer surface of the spikelets, what the wheat ear breaks up into. The lesions may be referred to as scabs, but this is not to be confused and associated with other scab diseases such as those with different host and pathogen. Head blight is visible before the spikes mature. Spikelets begin to appear water-soaked before the loss of chlorophyll, which gives a white straw color. Peduncles that are directly under the inflorescence can become discolored into a brown-purple color. Tissues of the inflorescence typically become blighted into a bleached tan appearance, and the grain within it atrophies. The awn will become deformed, twisted and curve in a downward direction.BarleyInfections on barley are not always visible in the field. Similar to wheat, infected spikelets show a browning or water-soaked appearance. The infected kernels display a tan to dark brown discoloration. During long periods of wetness, pink to salmon-orange spore masses can be seen on the infected spikelets and kernels. The cortical lesions of infected seeds become a reddish-brown in cool, moist soil. Warm soil can cause head blight to occur after emergence, and crown and basal culm rot can be observed in later plant development.	 carnation Gibberella zeae

One of the most harmful seed and soil borne pathogens, Macrophomina phaseolina is a fungus that infects nearly 500 plant species in more than 100 families. The hosts include: peanut, cabbage, pepper, chickpea, soybean, sunflower, sweet potato, alfalfa, sesame, potato, sorghum, wheat, and corn, among others. The identification of isolates of M. phaseolina is usually based on morphology and efforts to divide the pathogen into subspecies, but because there are wide intraspecific variations in the phenotype of the isolates, these criteria are often not reliable. The failure to correctly detect and identify M. phaseolina using conventional culture-based morphological techniques has led scientists to develop nucleic acid-based molecular approaches, such as highly sensitive and specific polymerase chain reaction-based methods. Researchers have also recently created species-specific oligonucleotide primers and digoxigenin-labeled probes in hopes of better identifying and detecting M. phaseolina.The pathogen M. phaseolina affects the fibrovascular system of the roots and basal internodes of its host, impeding the transport of water and nutrients to the upper parts of the plant. As a result, progressive wilting, premature dying, loss of vigor, and reduced yield are characteristic symptoms of M. phaseolina infection. The fungus also causes many diseases like damping off, seedling blight, collar rot, stem rot, charcoal rot, basal stem rot, and root rot. Although brown lesions may form on the hypocotyls or emerging seedlings, many symptoms occur during or after flowering, including grey discoloration of the stem and taproots, shredding of plant tissue in the stem and top of the taproot, and hollowing of the stem. Small black dots may form beneath the epidermis of the lower stem and in the taproot, giving the stems and roots a charcoal-sprinkled appearance. When the epidermis is removed, small and black microsclerotia (a sign of the disease) may be so numerous that they give a greyish-black tint to the plant tissue. In addition, reddish-brown discoloration and black streaks can form in the pith and vascular tissues of the root and stem.	 carnation Macrophomina phaseolina

Paratylenchus spp. nematodes have a wide variety of hosts with a recorded 25 different plants it is able to infect.  Paratylenchus hamatus feeds on the roots of fig trees, celery, grapes, and peaches. P. hamatus has also been documented to cause patchy areas of chlorosis and wilting in lentils, resulting in up to 40% yield loss. Symptoms appear in patches or clusters and plants show a slow and general decline in growth and vigor. Common symptoms of infection are that of other root nematodes; stunted growth of the plant as well as the roots, chlorosis, leaf drop, reduced plant weight or yield, and undersized fruit are all symptoms which may be seen.  These symptoms are universal across the different plant species it infects.  Shallow localized lesions on the roots can be seen at feeding sites.  No signs are present with the exception of the nematodes themselves and their eggs, which are not visible to the naked eye.	 carnation Paratylenchus hamatus

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 carnation Phymatotrichopsis omnivora

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 carnation Phymatotrichum omnivorum

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 carnation Phytophthora nicotianae var. parasitica

Root lesion nematodes infect a great variety of hosts. Pratylenchus penetrans alone has over 350 host plants. They include agricultural crops such as soybeans, potatoes, corn, bananas, and wheat. The genus is found most often in corn. Signs of disease are similar in most plants and generally include necrotic lesions of the roots. The lesions can also be entrances for pathogenic bacteria and fungi, which produce secondary infections. Above ground the plant becomes stunted, chlorotic, and wilted, and it often dies. A crop field may be patchy as plants wither and die. Root lesion nematodes can cause significant yield losses.	 carnation Pratylenchus

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 carnation Rhizoctonia solani

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 carnation Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 carnation Thanatephorus cucumeris

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 carrot Alternaria alternata

Alternaria Leaf Blight is a foliar disease of carrots caused by the fungus Alternaria dauci. Alternaria dauci is included in the porri species group of Alternaria, which is classified for having large conidium and a long, slender filiform beak. Because many of the members of this group have similar morphology, Alternaria dauci has also been classified as formae specialis of carrots, or A. porri f. sp. dauci. It has been well established that the host range of this disease is on cultivated and wild carrot, but it has also been claimed that Alternaria dauci has the ability to infect wild parsnip, celery, and parsley. A study in 2011 by Boedo et al. evaluated the host range of Alternaria dauci in a controlled environment and concluded that several non-carrot species could constitute alternate hosts, such as Ridolfia segetum (corn parsley) and Caucalis tenet (hedge parsley). Despite their findings, reports of A. dauci colonization on non-carrot hosts continues to be debated because the use of Koch's Postulates on recovered isolates of A. dauci is challenging and is rarely reported; in addition, few reports are often made of such infections in field settings.Symptoms of A. dauci appear first as greenish-brown, then water-soaked, and finally necrotic lesions 8–10 days following an infection event. These lesions will appear on carrot leaflets and petioles, and have a characteristic chlorotic, yellow halo. The lesions can be irregularly shaped, and will often appear on older leaves first. Older leaves are the most susceptible to infection; when approximately 40% of the leaf surface area has become infected by Alternaria dauci, the leaf will completely yellow, collapse, and die. It is during extended conditions of warm, moist weather that lesions can coalesce and cause entire tops of carrot plants to die off, a phenomenon that is sometimes mistaken for frost damage. The symptoms of this disease are also commonly confused with Cercospora Leaf Blight of carrots as well as bacterial blight, and microscopic analysis is frequently needed to accurately diagnose the pathogen. A. dauci produces characteristically dark to olive-brown hyphae and elongated conidiophores, with conidia typically borne singly. Petiole infection can also occur without any lesion development on leaflets, and A. dauci can additionally result in damping-off of seedlings, seed stalk blight, and inflorescence infections. These symptoms can significantly reduce yield due to lost photosynthetic activity, prevention of mechanical harvest, and infection of commercial carrot seeds.	 carrot Alternaria dauci

Aster yellows affects a long list of plant species including native plants, annual flowering plants, ornamentals, weeds, and vegetables crops. The largest family affected is the Asteraceae, and ornamental plants commonly infected are asters, marigolds, coreopsis, sunflowers, and purple coneflower.  Regarding vegetable crops, onion, lettuce, celery, and carrot are affected with the latter suffering the greatest losses.The range of characteristic symptoms varies by the phytoplasma strain, timing of infection, plant species, temperature, age, and size of the plant. The symptoms can be mistaken for herbicide damage or virus symptoms.  They include vein clearing until the entire leaf becomes chlorotic, stunting, deformation, virescence (greening of flowers), phyllody (development of leaf-like flower petals), reddening of foliage, reduced root system, and sterility.  Aster yellows does not typically kill perennial host plants. The symptoms caused by the disease are exacerbated by hot climates while some plants in cooler climates may be asymptomatic.Characteristic symptoms specific to the carrot include initial vein clearing and chlorosis, followed by production of many adventitious shoots, with the tops looking like a witches’-broom.  The internodes of such shoots are short as are the leaf petioles.  Young leaves are smaller and dry up while the petioles of older leaves twist and break off.  Any remaining older leaves turn bronze or red late in the season.  Floral parts are deformed and roots are smaller, abnormally shaped, and have woolly secondary roots.  The carrot roots are predisposed to soft rots in the field and storage and taste unpleasant to the consumer.	 carrot Aster yellows

There are a variety of hosts including but not limited to; banana, beans, cabbage, carrot, cassava, coffee, corn, cotton, onion, other crucifers, pepper, potato, sweet potato and tomato. Pandanus conoideus and karuka (Pandanus julianettii) get bacterial soft rot and necrosis on the leaves from Pectobacterium carotovorum subsp. carotovorum. For each host there are different symptoms displayed. Most symptoms are along the lines of watery and soft decay of the tissue. Cabbage and crucifers' symptoms start where the tissue makes contact with the soil. Often there is a change in color and in the case of a carrot, the whole taproot can be decayed leaving just the epidermis. Sweet potatoes show clear lesions that grow rapidly leaving a recognizable watery and soft, oozy tissue where only the peel remains intact.Potatoes experience a cream to tan colored tuber that becomes very soft and watery. A characteristic black border separates the diseased area and the healthy tissue. Only when the secondary organism invades the infected tissue does that decay become slimy with a foul odor. Like the carrot, the whole tuber can be consumed leaving just the epidermis in the soil. The foliage becomes weak and chlorotic with upward turned leaves and lesions on the stem. The stem also rots and becomes mushy with its colorless or brown lesions.	 carrot Bacterial soft rot

Plants that are infected will tend to display early symptoms within 5 days. The BCTV causes many symptoms including:Vein swelling (the earliest and most common symptom)Leaf curlingYellowing of leaves with purple veinsNecrosis and hyperplasia of the phloemFruit deformationPremature fruit ripeningReduced fruit quality and yieldStuntingDeath of young seedlings	 carrot Beet curly top virus

Foliage becomes wilted and discoloured. Leaves turn rusty red to scarlet with some yellowing. Rusty-brown tunnels are seen under the outer skin of mature roots.	 carrot Carrot fly

The typical hosts for this virus are apiaceous plants, which is known as the carrot family. The virus specifically targets carrots, parsnips, and cilantro but only effects carrot as this is the only host for the vector. This virus alone does not cause symptoms in carrots, but in connection with Carrot red leaf virus (CRLV) causes yellowing, reddening of leaves and yield loss. This can often be confused as a deficiency in carrots. The paired disease is known as Carrot motley dwarf virus.	 carrot Carrot mottle virus

Symptoms of celery mosaic virus include a distinct mottled pattern on the leaves, distorted leaf growth with exaggerated rosette formation. Some strains of celery mosaic virus cause a "crinkled" pattern to form on the leaves of the plant. Oftentimes, plants infected with celery mosaic virus early in their development do not produce usable crops. Plants infected by the virus late in their development may provide usable crops provided that the crops are harvested quickly after infection.Celery is the most common host of this virus. As the name implies, this virus causes a mosaic or mottling in the leaves of celery. There can also be malformation of leaflets. In older leaves, chorotic/necrotic spots may occur and the plants can be stunted.In addition to celery, this virus has been identified in other important crops in the  Apiaceae  including carrots (Daucus carota), coriander (Coriandrum sativum), parsley (Petroselinum crispum), parsnip (Pastinaca sativa), and dill (Anethum graveolens). It has also been identified in several weed species in the family Apiaceae, including poison hemlock (Conium maculatum), mock bishopweed (Ptilimnium capillaceum) and wild cherry (Apium leptophyllum).There is some confusion in the literature as to whether CeMV can infect hosts in the family Chenopodiaceae. In 2002, a paper reporting the results of a survey in Australia found three different but related potyviruses infecting species of the Apiaceae in Australia, CeMV, Carrot virus Y (CarVY), and Apium virus Y (ApVY). Both CarVY and ApVY have been shown to infect one or more species of Chenopodium. The latter reference, reporting ApVY infecting celery in New Zealand, found the plants to be doubly infected with CeMV and ApVY and the authors suggested that CeMV “may mask the presence of ApVY”. It is possible that one or both of these viruses have been undetected in mixed infections with CeMV in some of the past studies. With sequence data now available for both CarVY and ApVY this ambiguity may be cleared up in time.	 carrot Celery mosaic virus

Mycocentrospora acerina has a wide host range effecting vegetables, ornamentals and weeds. Umbelliferous (carrot family) crops are particularly vulnerable and among the most economically important of the hosts. Mycocentrospora acerina causes an important post-harvest disease named "liquorice rot" in carrots which have been the most studied host. During the growing stage of carrots, the pathogen can cause damping-off and death of seedlings, stunting, early senescence, and leaf lesions that are brown necrotic flecks. Once the carrots are in storage the liquorice rot occurs where root lesions appear that are black in color.	 carrot Centrospora acerina

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 carrot Colletotrichum gloeosporioides

This virus was first characterized in cucumbers (Cucumis sativus) showing mosaic symptoms in 1934, hence the name Cucumber mosaic. Since then, it has been found to infect a great variety of other plants. These include other vegetables such as squash, melons, peppers, eggplants, tomatoes, beans, carrots, celery, lettuce, spinach, beets, many ornamentals and bedding plants, such as Narcissus, and various weeds. Its presence has been confirmed on every continent of the world, including Antarctica.Symptoms seen with this virus include leaf mosaic or mottling (Fig. 1), yellowing, ringspots, stunting, and leaf, flower and fruit distortion. CMV also induces a type of symptom on leaves known as the "shoestring" effect on many host species. This effect causes young leaves to appear narrow and the entire plant to be stunted.Specifically, CMV can cause cucumbers to turn pale and bumpy. The leaves of these plants turn mosaic and their rugosity is often changed, making leaves wrinkled and misshapen. Growth of these plants is usually also stunted and produces few flowers. Often, cucumber fruits are oddly shaped, appear gray, and tested bitter. These appearances lead to them being referred to as "white pickles".Tomato plants are usually stunted and have poorly shaped leaves, or "fernleaf", when infected by CMV. Also certain strains of CMV can cause partial or total crop loss. CMV in peppers causes slightly different symptoms than the previously mentioned. Pepper plants often have severe foliar damage, shown as mosaic and necrotic rings. Often the peppers themselves are misshapen and contain chlorotic rings and spots. In celery, CMV causes streaking and spotting and can be often confused with symptoms of the celery mosaic virus. Symptoms of CMV in lettuce, such as chlorosis, plant stunting and often do not properly head, can be very similar to those of lettuce mosaic virus.CMV has also been identified in a lesser extent to a number of plant species. It is found to be a minor virus infecting Allium crops. The virus infection causes extensive malformation on garlic plants, and mild malformation to severe necrotic streaks on onion leaves. The severe damages on garlic plants and difficulty of aphids transmission of garlic isolate, were possible causal for the rare CMV on garlic. Genetically, the two onion isolates from Turkey (CMV-14.3Po and CMV-15.5Po) are highly similar to others isolated from various plant species in Mediterranean, European, and East Asian countries. CMV was also detected on American beautyberry, an important wildlife and pollinator food source plant native to North America.In plant tissue this virus makes characteristic viral inclusion bodies which can be diagnostic. They are hexagonal in shape (Fig. 2) and stain both in a protein stain and a nucleic acid stain. The inclusions can also be rhomboidal, may appear hollow (Fig. 2) and can form larger aggregates. The inclusions are not uniformly distributed and can be found in epidermal (Fig. 2), mesophyll, and stomatal cells. These inclusions are made up of virus particles.			 carrot Cucumber mosaic virus

Symptoms appear as dirty white, circular, floury patches on either sides of the leaves.Under favourable environmental conditions, entire leaves, stems, floral parts and pods are affected.The whole leaf may be covered with powdery mass.If persistent, mild chlorosis or necrosis can also occur.	 carrot Erysiphe polygoni

Gibberella fujikuroi is most widely known for its disease producing capabilities in rice, but barley, millet, sugarcane and maize are also susceptible. In all infected plants, similar symptoms have been found, though rice has been most predominantly studied. The most telltale symptom of Bakanae is the tall, spindly look of the plant. This is a result of the gibberellins, or growth hormones, the fungus secretes. Infected plants are easy to pick out, then, as they often rise above the rest of the healthy plants with regularly secreted growth hormones.  However, it is also possible that stunting may occur, along with Chlorosis of the leaves of the plant, root lesions, or empty grains of plants grown to maturity.	 carrot Gibberella fujikuroi

In susceptible crops, any parts below the ground are liable to infection. The mycelium of the fungus forms a matted, felt-like purple covering which grows over the surface of the root. Soil particles adhere to this and small, dark-coloured sclerotia grow among the hyphae. A dry rot occurs and secondary rots may move in. Mycelial threads, often merging into strands, grow through the soil and infect nearby plants. A pink or brown mat of mycelial threads may grow above the soil surface. In affected plants, the aerial parts may wilt and have discoloured, stunted foliage.	 carrot Helicobasidium brebissonii

In susceptible crops, any parts below the ground are liable to infection. The mycelium of the fungus forms a matted, felt-like purple covering which grows over the surface of the root. Soil particles adhere to this and small, dark-coloured sclerotia grow among the hyphae. A dry rot occurs and secondary rots may move in. Mycelial threads, often merging into strands, grow through the soil and infect nearby plants. A pink or brown mat of mycelial threads may grow above the soil surface. In affected plants, the aerial parts may wilt and have discoloured, stunted foliage.	 carrot Helicobasidium purpureum

Meloidogyne hapla (Northern root-knot nematode) has a wide host range. It is polyphagous and affects over 550 crops and weeds. It feeds on many agricultural and horticultural plants (vegetables, fruits, ornamentals), but few grasses or cereals. A list of known hosts can be found at the bottom of this page.Symptoms can be seen in the roots, leaves, and the overall growth of the infected plant. In roots, there may be stunting, wilting, and the formation of abnormal growths called galls. Galls are usually small and spherical and are situated near many small roots. They are formed when the nematode enters the root and releases chemicals to enlarge root cells, on which they feed. The roots become defective and therefore cannot transport water and nutrients properly. The end result is stunted, wilted, and yellowing plants (characteristic of nutrient deficiency) and a decreased yield. Severity of the symptoms depends on nematode population density and host plant species and cultivar. As the number of nematodes increase in the area, the number and size of root galls increase as well. Each crop responds to Meloidogyne hapla differently. Carrots typically undergo severe forking with galling of the roots, lettuce have beadlike galls, and grasses and onions have small and barely noticeable galls and symptoms. In potato tubers (special stems), brown spots will appear on areas of the tubers where the females have laid their eggs.If a field has a patchy distribution of symptoms, it usually indicates the presence of nematodes. Most nematodes are not usually distributed uniformly in the soil. To correctly identify Meloidogyne hapla, the infected plant should be sent to a lab for a proper diagnosis. One common method is perineal pattern analysis where the perineum of the female nematode (area between the anus and the vulva) is examined for a specific pattern in ridges and annulations. Another common method is analyzing isozyme (different variations of the same enzyme produced by different genes) electrophoretic profiles using esterase and malate dehydrogenase.	 carrot Meloidogyne hapla

Mycocentrospora acerina has a wide host range effecting vegetables, ornamentals and weeds. Umbelliferous (carrot family) crops are particularly vulnerable and among the most economically important of the hosts. Mycocentrospora acerina causes an important post-harvest disease named "liquorice rot" in carrots which have been the most studied host. During the growing stage of carrots, the pathogen can cause damping-off and death of seedlings, stunting, early senescence, and leaf lesions that are brown necrotic flecks. Once the carrots are in storage the liquorice rot occurs where root lesions appear that are black in color.	 carrot Mycocentrospora acerina

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 carrot Phymatotrichopsis omnivora

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 carrot Phymatotrichum omnivorum

Phytophthora cactorum has an extremely wide host range, and can infect over 200 species or 160 genera of trees, ornamentals, and fruit crops. In general, P. cactorum is capable of infecting both young and old plants, and causes root rots and crown rots of the many genera it infects. Although the symptoms this pathogen produces varies between the types of organisms it infects, in general disease occurs during periods that are both wet and warm. Furthermore, most infections are caused by zoospores entering the plant through wounds.: 34 On older trees, P. cactorum causes the formation of sap exuding dark colored cankers on the trunks of trees, as well as leaf size and number reduction, chlorosis, and dieback of branches. The diagnosis of a P. cactorum infection of trees, is based on the identification of symptoms, in particular the oozing cankers, and confirmation of symptoms in a diagnosis lab or utilization of a field ELISA detection kit. P. cactorum can be a major problem in apple orchards, as it can cause crown, collar, and root rots in apple trees. When infecting apple trees, the organism can attack through wounds either above or below the soil line, impairing phloem and root function, and causing stunting, foliar disorders, and death after several years. Furthermore, because the pathogen causes damage to the phloem of the tree, one diagnostic method is to check for necrotic phloem tissue at the base of the tree which will be orange to red-brown in the early stages and dark brown in the later stages of infection.A good example of P. cactorum causing foliar disease is on ginseng. Foliar disease of ginseng usually occurs during May and early June, causing the leaves to become transparent and papery. Ginseng foliar infection occurs through the rain splash dispersal of spores from the soil onto above ground wounds. Once infected, P. cactorum works its way down to the roots, rotting them and killing the plant.P. cactorum is also one of the causal agents of black rot on orchids. When infecting orchids, this organism first produces small black lesions on the pseudobulbs of the orchid, which then enlarge and may engulf the entire pseudobulb, leaf, or move through the rhizomes to other portions of the plant prior to killing it. Diagnosis of orchid black rot by P. cactorum is through the identification of lemon-shaped zoosporangia with either a papilla or a short pedicel, the presence of oospores, or molecular identification. Since there are multiple species of Phytophthora that are capable of causing disease on orchids, classification only to the genus level is required for proper prescription of disease management techniques.Crown rot or root rot of strawberries is a common example of diseases of fruit crops caused by P. cactorum. On strawberries, P. cactorum infects the roots and the base of the plant causing stunting and reduced leaf size, with possible complete plant collapse later in the season. Similarly to apple trees, crown rots of strawberries caused by P. cactorum can be partially diagnosed by cutting the crown of the plant and observing brown vascular tissues, and root rots by brown or black stunted roots.Leather rot of strawberry is an additional disease affecting strawberry plants, with P. cactorum being the causal agent. Symptoms of this disease include brown patches or green patches with a brown border in immature fruit, with infected mature fruit displaying a purple to brown color, and becoming hard, leathery, or even mummified. Signs include visible mycelium inside of hollow infected berries, as well as mycelium on the surface of berries.  Infected fruit often has an unpleasant taste and odor, which is diagnostic. 	 carrot Phytophthora cactorum

Root lesion nematodes infect a great variety of hosts. Pratylenchus penetrans alone has over 350 host plants. They include agricultural crops such as soybeans, potatoes, corn, bananas, and wheat. The genus is found most often in corn. Signs of disease are similar in most plants and generally include necrotic lesions of the roots. The lesions can also be entrances for pathogenic bacteria and fungi, which produce secondary infections. Above ground the plant becomes stunted, chlorotic, and wilted, and it often dies. A crop field may be patchy as plants wither and die. Root lesion nematodes can cause significant yield losses.	 carrot Pratylenchus

Root lesion nematode has a wide host range, including hosts like apple, cherry, conifers, roses, tomato, potato, corn, onion and sugarbeets, and ornamentals such as Narcissus. More than 164 hosts for P. penetrans have been recorded.  In the host range there are some hosts that are susceptible, such as wheat, oat, field pea, faba bean, and chickpea, and some that are moderately susceptible, such as barley and canola.Some general symptoms that are produced on infected plants include poor growth, fruit spot, and chlorotic foliage.  These secondary symptoms are often due to plant root stress.  These make it rather difficult to diagnose nematode diseases in general.  The roots when infected produce necrotic lesions, which are darkened areas of dead tissue, on the surface and throughout the cortex of the infected roots.  These lesions turn the root to reddish-brown to black and are initially spotty.  As the nematode continues to feed, the lesions can coalesce to become large necrotic areas of tissue that may eventually girdle the root. The population size of the nematode affects the degree of symptoms.  Low to moderate populations may cause no visible above ground symptoms, while high populations can lead to stunting, nutrient and water deficiencies, and eventual die-back of the plant.  On potato, infection of root lesion nematode can cause a secondary invasion by Verticillium dahliae leading to Potato Early Dying.  Onions are another important host of P. penetrans.  Onions are an important vegetable for consumption in the United States and upon infection the nematodes can limit yield and quality of the bulbs.  Populations of more than 0.01 nematode per cubic centimeter of soil resulted in injury to onions.  There is a negative relationship between the increasing inoculum levels on onion root and top fresh weight at harvest.	 carrot Pratylenchus penetrans

Pythium irregulare is an oomycete that causes pre- and post-emergence damping off, as well as root rot. Pre-emergence damping off occurs when P. irregulare infects seeds before they emerge, causing them to rot and turn brown, thus preventing successful growth. Alternatively, post-emergence damping off occurs when the oomycete infects just after the seed has germinated. This usually causes infection in the roots and stem which appears as water soaking and necrosis. Depending on the severity, plants may collapse or be severely stunted. In plants that are older and more established, P. irregulare causes root rot. This will initially cause necrotic lesions, which leads to chlorosis, reduced yield, poor growth, and stunting due to inadequate water and nutrient acquisition by the roots. Additionally, P. irregulare is often found coinfecting with other Pythium species. All three of these diseases caused by P. irregulare can be caused by other pathogens as well, so a disease diagnosis is not necessarily indicative of P. irregulareIn order to identify Pythium irregulare it is necessary to isolate the organism and observe it microscopically. First, it is important to identify that the microbe is an oomycete by looking for characteristics that are specific to oomycetes, such as coenocytic hyphae, zoospores, and oospores. After that, one can identify the microbe as being in the genera Pythium by observing disease symptoms, host range, as well as the presence of a vesicle, where zoospores form, which is attached to the sporangia. In contrast, most other oomycetes do not have a vesicle and the zoospores form in the sporangia. Finally, once the genera has been identified, it is helpful to use a dichotomous key to identify the species. Some of the key identifiers for P. irregulare include oogonia with irregular shaped, cylindrical projections, sporangia that occur singly, sporangia that are not filamentous, and oogonia smaller than 30 μm. There are also many genomic tests that can be done to determine species based on specific DNA markers. It is also important to note that many diagnosticians do not identify to the species level because it can be difficult to find all necessary microscopic structures and many management techniques can be applied to all Pythium species.Pythium irregulare has a very broad host range, including many agronomically and horticulturally important crops and is found on every continent except for Antarctica. P. irregulare infects over 200 species, including cereals, legumes, fruits, vegetables, and ornamentals. It differs from many other Pythium species in that it prefers cooler environments. A moist environment is also necessary for disease, which aids motility of spores. It is commonly found in both greenhouses and fields.	 carrot Pythium irregulare

Pythium sulcatum causes diseases predominately on members of the apiaceous family, the most common being the carrot. This pathogen causes cavity spots which are sunken, spherical to elliptical oriented, brown-black spots across the breadth of the surface of the carrot. These cavity spots are normally 1-10 mm in width and are often surrounded by a pale halo. The lesions enlarge as the roots mature, often most prominent around the time the crop is harvested. This pathogen is believed to be native of the apiaceous family that eventually became pathogenic to carrots. P. sulcatum is also seen to cause damping off, taproot dieback, root rotting, stunting, and forking of carrots, with cavity spots being the most common of these diseases. Because carrots are a root vegetable the cavity spots are only apparent after the carrot is harvested and washed.	 carrot Pythium sulcatum

In susceptible crops, any parts below the ground are liable to infection. The mycelium of the fungus forms a matted, felt-like purple covering which grows over the surface of the root. Soil particles adhere to this and small, dark-coloured sclerotia grow among the hyphae. A dry rot occurs and secondary rots may move in. Mycelial threads, often merging into strands, grow through the soil and infect nearby plants. A pink or brown mat of mycelial threads may grow above the soil surface. In affected plants, the aerial parts may wilt and have discoloured, stunted foliage.	 carrot Rhizoctonia crocorum

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 carrot Rhizoctonia solani

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 carrot Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 carrot Thanatephorus cucumeris

Armillaria mellea typically infects hardwood trees and conifers but sometimes will infect non-woody monocots and a few herbaceous plants. There are few signs, and the ones that do exist are often hard to find. The most prominent sign is honey-colored mushrooms at the base of the infected plant. Additional signs include white, fan-shaped mycelia and black rhizomorphs with diameters between 1/32nd of an inch and 1/8th of an inch. These usually are not as noticeable because they occur beneath the bark and in the soil, respectively. The symptoms are much more numerous, including slower growth, dieback of branches, yellowing foliage, rotted wood at base and/or roots, external cankers, cracking bark, bleeding stem, leaf wilting, defoliation, and rapid death. Leaf wilting, defoliation, and dieback occur after the destruction of the cambium.	 cassava Armillaria mellea

Xanthomonas axonopodis pv. manihotis is capable of infecting most members of the plant genus Manihot.  Consisting of about 100 species, the most economically significant species is easily the widely cultivated woody shrub, Manihot esculenta, known colloquially as the cassava plant.  In cassava, symptoms vary in a manner that is unique to this pathogen.  Symptoms include blight, wilting, dieback, and vascular necrosis.  A more diagnostic symptom visible in cassava with X. axonopodis infection is angular necrotic spotting of the leaves, often with a chlorotic ring encircling the spots.  These spots begin as distinguishable moist, brown lesions normally restricted to the bottom of the plant until they enlarge and coalesce, often killing the entire leaf.  A further diagnostic symptom often embodies itself as pools of gum exudate along wounds and leaf cross veins.  It begins as a sappy golden liquid and hardens to form an amber deposit.	 cassava Bacterial blight of cassava

Phytoplasmas can infect and cause various symptoms in more than 700 plant species. One characteristic symptom is abnormal floral organ development including phyllody (i.e., the production of leaf-like structures in place of flowers) and virescence (i.e., the development of green flowers attributable to a loss of pigment by petal cells). Phytoplasma-harboring flowering plants may nevertheless be sterile. The expression of genes involved in maintaining the apical meristem or in the development of floral organs is altered in the morphologically affected floral organs of phytoplasma-infected plants.A phytoplasma infection often triggers leaf yellowing, probably due to the presence of phytoplasma cells in phloem, which can affect phloem function and carbohydrate transport, inhibit chlorophyll biosynthesis, and trigger chlorophyll breakdown. These symptoms may be attributable to stress caused by the infection rather than a specific pathogenetic process.Many phytoplasma-infected plants develop a bushy or "witches' broom" appearance due to changes in their normal growth patterns. Most plants exhibit apical dominance but infection can trigger the proliferation of axillary (side) shoots and a reduction in internode size. Such symptoms are actually useful in the commercial production of poinsettias. Infection triggers more axillary shoot production; the poinsettia plants thus produce more than a single flower.	 cassava Candidatus Phytoplasma

CBSD is characterized by severe chlorosis and necrosis on infected leaves, giving them a yellowish, mottled appearance. Chlorosis may be associated with the veins, spanning from the mid vein, secondary and tertiary veins, or rather in blotches unconnected to veins.  Leaf symptoms vary greatly depending on a variety of factors.  The growing conditions (i.e. altitude, rainfall quantity), plant age, and the virus species account for these differences.  Brown streaks may appear on the stems of the cassava plant.  Also, a dry brown-black necrotic rot of the cassava tuber exists, which may progress from a small lesion to the whole root.   Finally, the roots can become constricted due to the tuber rot, stunting growth. Typically the affected plants do not possess all of these characteristics, but those that are severely affected may. Farmers may be unaware of their infected cassava crops until they are harvested and see the tuber lesions because leaves are asymptomatic.  The cassava mosaic virus (CMV) is another cassava virus that exhibits foliar symptoms similar to CBSD, but they are more obvious.UCBSV has milder symptoms than CBSV, and lower pathogenicity.	 cassava Cassava brown streak disease

G. graminicola is an anamorphic fungus which is identified as Colletotrichum graminicola in the teleomorphic phase. It is the anamorphic phase that causes anthracnose in many cereal species. While the main host of this disease is maize, it can also affect other cereals and grasses, such as sorghum, ryegrass, bluegrass, barley, wheat, and some cultivars of fescue where the production of fruiting bodies cause symptoms to appear in the host plant.  Corn anthracnose leaf blight is the most common stalk disease in maize and occurs most frequently in reduced-till or no-till fields.Symptoms can vary depending on which part of the growing season the corn is in.Early in the growing season, the main symptom is foliar leaf blight. This often appears as 1 inch (25 mm) long and 1⁄2 inch (13 mm) wide oval or spindle-shaped water-soaked lesions on the lower leaves of the plant. This tissue can become necrotic and has the potential to spread throughout the entire leaf, causing it to yellow and die. They are light brown in color, with margins that appear dark brown or purple. If this persists, black fruiting bodies will appear in the center of the lesion.The mid-season symptoms appear several weeks after corn produces tassels, when there will be a top die-back if the infection has spread throughout many parts of the plant. In this dieback, the entire plant will become necrotic and die, beginning at the tassel and working its way down the entire stalk to the lowest leaves.Late in the growing season, another major symptom of this disease appears: stalk rot. It can first be seen as a reflective black stripe on the internodes of the stalk, and can make the stalk soft, causing the plants to easily lodge in heavy precipitation or a wind event.	 cassava Colletotrichum graminicola

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 cassava Fusarium solani

The foliage of the plant exhibits the main symptoms which are yellow or green mosaic patterns appearing on the leaves, mottling, contortion, mis-shapen leaves, distorted growing points, stunting of the plant, rosetting, dwarfing and reduction in the root system.	 cassava Indian cassava mosaic virus

This species is reported to be pathogenic on grandiflora petunia (Petunia × atkinsiana). It causes root rot, shoot rot and shanking in tulips. It also infects blue daze (Evolvulus glomeratus), dusty miller (Jacobaea maritima), Barberton daisy (Gerbera jamesonii), and garden verbena (Verbena × hybrida). Like its relative Phytophtora cambivora, it can cause ink disease of chestnuts (Castanea sativa).The species is a cause of foot rot in tomatoes, causing discoloration and lesion in the stem. Progression of lesions leads to girdling, root system rot and plant collapse. Foliage will not be affected until plant stem has become girdled.	 cassava Phytophthora cryptogea

P. erythroseptica is host specific, and typically only infects potatoes in moist soils. However, there are related pink rot species that infect raspberries, tomatoes, clover, and asparagus. Symptoms of the disease in potatoes can be seen on the tubers, above ground vegetation, as well as the roots of the potatoes. Tuber symptoms are the most obvious to diagnose. Occasionally, a darkened color can be observed on the skin covering the infected portion of the tuber. When a suspected tuber is cut open, a dividing line can be seen between the healthy tuber tissue and the infected tissue. Infection spreads from the stolon end of tubers and usually leads to a rubbery or spongy consistency. Pink rot is not considered a slimy soft rot, since most of the tissue stays intact The pinkish-salmon color of infected tubers can be seen once the phenolic compounds inside the tubers are exposed to oxygen for 15–30 minutes. After this time period the infected tissue turns to a brownish-blackish color  Aboveground symptoms can include chlorosis, stunting, and wilting of the plants. Roots and stolons can become blackened as well. The pink color is often used as the main symptom when making a firm diagnosis. The infected tubers often are watery and have a distinct smell. The potatoes plants themselves can sometimes be wilted however most symptoms are seen on the tuber. The majority of diseased tubers get infected while in storage. The majority of symptoms are seen inside the tuber except for the rubbery appearance that the outside may have. There are often cases that show symptoms other than rotting, these are often due to a pathogen other than P. erythroseptica infecting the tuber along with pink rot.	 cassava Phytophthora erythroseptica

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 cassava Phytophthora nicotianae var. parasitica

There are many strains of Verticillium dahliae which are categorized into vegetative compatibility groups (VCG). These groups comprise strains that are able to exchange genetic material via anastomosis. Each VCG affects a few or only one host and the virulence of the pathogen varies by host. While individual V. dahliae strains are relatively host specific, as a species it has a wide range.Verticillium dahliae has a very wide host range, affecting over 300 plant species. Some susceptible crops include Brussels sprouts, cabbage, eggplant, cucumbers, mint, pepper, potatoes, pumpkin, spinach, tomato, watermelon, honeydew, and cantaloupe. Of these, tomato, potato, and eggplant have resistant or tolerant varieties.Symptoms of this disease are seen throughout the plant. Leaves may have abnormal coloration, necrotic areas, wilt, and/or fall off the plant. The stem may have discolored vascular tissue, exhibit rosetting (shortened internodes of the plant caused by reduced growth, resulting in a rosette-like appearance), and/or be stunted. Early senescence and dieback may also occur.Microsclerotia can be seen under a lens as small black structures in the vasculature of living and dead plants. This feature can be used to distinguish V. dahliae from V. albo-atrum, the other verticillium wilt pathogen.	 cassava Verticillium dahliae

There are a variety of hosts including but not limited to; banana, beans, cabbage, carrot, cassava, coffee, corn, cotton, onion, other crucifers, pepper, potato, sweet potato and tomato. Pandanus conoideus and karuka (Pandanus julianettii) get bacterial soft rot and necrosis on the leaves from Pectobacterium carotovorum subsp. carotovorum. For each host there are different symptoms displayed. Most symptoms are along the lines of watery and soft decay of the tissue. Cabbage and crucifers' symptoms start where the tissue makes contact with the soil. Often there is a change in color and in the case of a carrot, the whole taproot can be decayed leaving just the epidermis. Sweet potatoes show clear lesions that grow rapidly leaving a recognizable watery and soft, oozy tissue where only the peel remains intact.Potatoes experience a cream to tan colored tuber that becomes very soft and watery. A characteristic black border separates the diseased area and the healthy tissue. Only when the secondary organism invades the infected tissue does that decay become slimy with a foul odor. Like the carrot, the whole tuber can be consumed leaving just the epidermis in the soil. The foliage becomes weak and chlorotic with upward turned leaves and lesions on the stem. The stem also rots and becomes mushy with its colorless or brown lesions.	 cattleya Bacterial soft rot

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 cattleya Colletotrichum gloeosporioides

CymMV causes a mosaic of irregularly shaped chlorotic and/or necrotic lesions to appear on infected hosts. Additionally, infected plants will show smaller yields. Sometimes the orchids may display chlorotic rings while others will display symptoms in lesions. Sunken patches can also be observed on leaves.    Lastly, certain infected plants may be symptom-less but are still viral enough to infect other neighboring plants.  This is because the chlorosis and necrosis can take time to show; however, the virus can still be present on a leaf that does not display such obvious symptoms of the disease.  The virus is still able to be transmitted from the plant despite its "healthy" appearance.  The virus can be detected with ELISA, immunodiffusion tests, or a nucleic acid hybridization assay.	 cattleya Cymbidium mosaic virus

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 cattleya Glomerella cingulata

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 cattleya Lasiodiplodia theobromae

Phytophthora cactorum has an extremely wide host range, and can infect over 200 species or 160 genera of trees, ornamentals, and fruit crops. In general, P. cactorum is capable of infecting both young and old plants, and causes root rots and crown rots of the many genera it infects. Although the symptoms this pathogen produces varies between the types of organisms it infects, in general disease occurs during periods that are both wet and warm. Furthermore, most infections are caused by zoospores entering the plant through wounds.: 34 On older trees, P. cactorum causes the formation of sap exuding dark colored cankers on the trunks of trees, as well as leaf size and number reduction, chlorosis, and dieback of branches. The diagnosis of a P. cactorum infection of trees, is based on the identification of symptoms, in particular the oozing cankers, and confirmation of symptoms in a diagnosis lab or utilization of a field ELISA detection kit. P. cactorum can be a major problem in apple orchards, as it can cause crown, collar, and root rots in apple trees. When infecting apple trees, the organism can attack through wounds either above or below the soil line, impairing phloem and root function, and causing stunting, foliar disorders, and death after several years. Furthermore, because the pathogen causes damage to the phloem of the tree, one diagnostic method is to check for necrotic phloem tissue at the base of the tree which will be orange to red-brown in the early stages and dark brown in the later stages of infection.A good example of P. cactorum causing foliar disease is on ginseng. Foliar disease of ginseng usually occurs during May and early June, causing the leaves to become transparent and papery. Ginseng foliar infection occurs through the rain splash dispersal of spores from the soil onto above ground wounds. Once infected, P. cactorum works its way down to the roots, rotting them and killing the plant.P. cactorum is also one of the causal agents of black rot on orchids. When infecting orchids, this organism first produces small black lesions on the pseudobulbs of the orchid, which then enlarge and may engulf the entire pseudobulb, leaf, or move through the rhizomes to other portions of the plant prior to killing it. Diagnosis of orchid black rot by P. cactorum is through the identification of lemon-shaped zoosporangia with either a papilla or a short pedicel, the presence of oospores, or molecular identification. Since there are multiple species of Phytophthora that are capable of causing disease on orchids, classification only to the genus level is required for proper prescription of disease management techniques.Crown rot or root rot of strawberries is a common example of diseases of fruit crops caused by P. cactorum. On strawberries, P. cactorum infects the roots and the base of the plant causing stunting and reduced leaf size, with possible complete plant collapse later in the season. Similarly to apple trees, crown rots of strawberries caused by P. cactorum can be partially diagnosed by cutting the crown of the plant and observing brown vascular tissues, and root rots by brown or black stunted roots.Leather rot of strawberry is an additional disease affecting strawberry plants, with P. cactorum being the causal agent. Symptoms of this disease include brown patches or green patches with a brown border in immature fruit, with infected mature fruit displaying a purple to brown color, and becoming hard, leathery, or even mummified. Signs include visible mycelium inside of hollow infected berries, as well as mycelium on the surface of berries.  Infected fruit often has an unpleasant taste and odor, which is diagnostic. 	 cattleya Phytophthora cactorum

Although the common name of Phytophthora palmivora is bud rot of palms, and its Latin name means "plant destroyer" and "palm eater", it affects many tropical plants and has a moderately broad host range. P. palmivora is well studied in coconuts and papaya trees, however there are multiple hosts that are less commonly studied.  One common symptom of P. palmivora is fruit rots which are found in papaya, citrus, coconuts, durian, and cacao. Root rots are another symptom of P. palmivora and can be seen in red maples, citrus, papaya, mango, durian, and black pepper. Another symptom is the presence of cankers which are found in red maple, papaya, rubber, mangos, and cacao. Bud rots can also be seen in papaya and coconuts infected with P. palmivora. Bud rots are also found in Palmyra palms and coconut palms. Collar rots are found on citrus, mango, and black pepper infected with P. palmivora. The signs of P. palmivora are microscopic and can be differentiated from other oomycetes by the presence of oval shaped papillate sporangia with short pedicles and spherical oogonia with narrow stalks (Widmer, 2014).	 cattleya Phytophthora palmivora

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 cattleya Rhizoctonia solani

Typhula spp. impacts cool season turfgrass that experiences extended periods of snow cover. These species of hosts can include creeping bentgrass, annual ryegrass, and perennial ryegrass. Some of its more common hosts include fine fescue, tall fescue, and Kentucky bluegrass. Symptoms of the pathogen often manifest in all species the same way; as circular patches 6 inches to a foot in diameter of dead or damaged turfgrass. Sometimes patches can be as large as three feet and can merge into other patches. These “scars” in the turf can remain until May or early June. Dead plant tissue becomes matted and blades become grayish and brittle after drying. Signs of the disease can include visible mycelium on turf after snow clears and dark brown or black sclerotia structures embedded in dead plant tissue.	 cattleya Snow mold

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 chickpea Alternaria alternata

Hosts of Aphanomyces euteiches can be annuals or perennials in the legume family, including: pea (Pisum sativum), alfalfa (Medicago sativa), snap bean and red kidney bean (Phaseolus vulgaris), faba bean (Vicia faba), red clover (Trifolium pratense), and white clover (Trifolium repens).  Of particular concern is Aphanomyces euteiches f.sp. pisi, which is responsible for pea root rot and is the most economically damaging form of pea root rot.  In North America, genetically distinct populations of A. euteiches demonstrate host specificity, but such specificity has not been observed in Europe.Because A. euteiches is a root-infecting pathogen, primary symptoms occur on roots and stem tissue below the soil line.  Infected roots often appear gray and water-soaked, eventually becoming soft and honey-brown or blackish-brown in appearance.  Infection causes a reduction in root volume and function, including reduced nodulation, leading to decreased water and nutrient up-take, which lead to above-ground secondary symptoms.  Symptoms in the above-ground plant tissue can include chlorosis of the cotyledons and necrosis of the epicotyls and/or hypocotyls, stunting, and wilting of foliage.  Some symptoms can differ among hosts.  Infected plants and patterns of infection in the field often correspond to areas in the field with poor soil drainage, which can be the result of soil compaction, soil texture (high clay content), or excessive wetness due to irrigation or rainfall.  Symptoms are generally similar among infected legumes, however timing and pattern of disease can differ among hosts and between annuals and perennials.  In both peas and beans, lesions tend to progress up the plant tissue, starting with the epicotyls and moving to the hypocotyls, eventually extending above the soil.  Lesions on pea epicotyls turn black, eventually creating a pinched region above the cotyledons as the result of pinched tissue.  Lesions on beans, on the other hand, have a characteristic water-soaked appearance, are grayish-green in color, and are firm to the touch.  In alfalfa symptoms include chlorotic cotyledons which may eventually become necrotic.Although the symptoms caused by A. euteiches can be difficult to distinguish from symptoms caused by other root-infecting plant pathogens (such as Pythium, Rhizoctonia, and Fusarium), there are some distinct differences.  Aphanomyces root rot rarely results in seed rot and/or pre-emergent damping-off.  The characteristic lesions caused by the different pathogens also differ.  Fusarium infection results in black or reddish vascular tissue, and Rhizoctonia infection results in sunken, cankerous lesions.A. euteiches exhibits no macroscopic signs, but oogonia and oospores can be seen in root tissue with a compound microscope.	 chickpea Aphanomyces euteiches

Once ascochyta blight has infected a healthy chickpea plant, it will start to develop lesions on all aerial plant parts. If a seed pod becomes infected, it may initially be asymptomatic, but will eventually develop dark lesions on the surface of the seed coats.	 chickpea Ascochyta rabiei

Colletotrichum capsici has a broad host range but prefers peppers, yams and eggplants. On chili peppers, Capsicum annuum L., C. capsici infect the stem, fruit, and leaves of the plant, causing anthracnose, die-back and ripe fruit rot. C. capsici infection tends to infect ripe red fruit and lead to the development of brown necrotic lesions containing concentric acervuli that will eventually appear black from the setae and sclerotia (Srinivasan, Vijayalakshmi Kothandaraman, Vaikuntavasan, & Rethinasamy, 2014). Additionally, the fruit content of capsaicin and oleoresin is reduced, which results in a decrease of its medicinal potency (Madhavan, Paranidharan, & Velazhahan, 2016).	 chickpea Colletotrichum capsici

This virus was first characterized in cucumbers (Cucumis sativus) showing mosaic symptoms in 1934, hence the name Cucumber mosaic. Since then, it has been found to infect a great variety of other plants. These include other vegetables such as squash, melons, peppers, eggplants, tomatoes, beans, carrots, celery, lettuce, spinach, beets, many ornamentals and bedding plants, such as Narcissus, and various weeds. Its presence has been confirmed on every continent of the world, including Antarctica.Symptoms seen with this virus include leaf mosaic or mottling (Fig. 1), yellowing, ringspots, stunting, and leaf, flower and fruit distortion. CMV also induces a type of symptom on leaves known as the "shoestring" effect on many host species. This effect causes young leaves to appear narrow and the entire plant to be stunted.Specifically, CMV can cause cucumbers to turn pale and bumpy. The leaves of these plants turn mosaic and their rugosity is often changed, making leaves wrinkled and misshapen. Growth of these plants is usually also stunted and produces few flowers. Often, cucumber fruits are oddly shaped, appear gray, and tested bitter. These appearances lead to them being referred to as "white pickles".Tomato plants are usually stunted and have poorly shaped leaves, or "fernleaf", when infected by CMV. Also certain strains of CMV can cause partial or total crop loss. CMV in peppers causes slightly different symptoms than the previously mentioned. Pepper plants often have severe foliar damage, shown as mosaic and necrotic rings. Often the peppers themselves are misshapen and contain chlorotic rings and spots. In celery, CMV causes streaking and spotting and can be often confused with symptoms of the celery mosaic virus. Symptoms of CMV in lettuce, such as chlorosis, plant stunting and often do not properly head, can be very similar to those of lettuce mosaic virus.CMV has also been identified in a lesser extent to a number of plant species. It is found to be a minor virus infecting Allium crops. The virus infection causes extensive malformation on garlic plants, and mild malformation to severe necrotic streaks on onion leaves. The severe damages on garlic plants and difficulty of aphids transmission of garlic isolate, were possible causal for the rare CMV on garlic. Genetically, the two onion isolates from Turkey (CMV-14.3Po and CMV-15.5Po) are highly similar to others isolated from various plant species in Mediterranean, European, and East Asian countries. CMV was also detected on American beautyberry, an important wildlife and pollinator food source plant native to North America.In plant tissue this virus makes characteristic viral inclusion bodies which can be diagnostic. They are hexagonal in shape (Fig. 2) and stain both in a protein stain and a nucleic acid stain. The inclusions can also be rhomboidal, may appear hollow (Fig. 2) and can form larger aggregates. The inclusions are not uniformly distributed and can be found in epidermal (Fig. 2), mesophyll, and stomatal cells. These inclusions are made up of virus particles.			 chickpea Cucumber mosaic virus

Once ascochyta blight has infected a healthy chickpea plant, it will start to develop lesions on all aerial plant parts. If a seed pod becomes infected, it may initially be asymptomatic, but will eventually develop dark lesions on the surface of the seed coats.	 chickpea Didymella rabiei

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 chickpea Fusarium eumartii

 The fungus enters the vascular system of the infected plant via the roots. It produces enzymes that degrade the cell walls so that gels are formed that block the plant's transport system. Discolouration of the internal tissues progresses from the roots to the aerial parts of the plant, yellowing and wilting of the foliage occur, and finally there is necrosis.It is possible to identify affected seedlings approximately three weeks after sowing as they display preliminary symptoms such as drooping and pale-coloured leaves. Later they collapse to a prostrate position and will be found to have shrunken stems both above and below ground level. When adult plants are affected, they exhibit wilting symptoms which progress from the petioles and younger leaves in two or three days to the whole plant. The older leaves develop chlorosis while the younger leaves stay a dull green. At a later stage of the disease, all leaves turn yellow. Discolouration of the pith and xylem occurs in the roots and can be seen when they are cut longitudinally.	 chickpea Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. ciceris

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 chickpea Fusarium solani

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 chickpea Fusarium solani f.sp. eumartii

L. taurica is the pathogen responsible for powdery mildew on onions, but it can also infect peppers, tomatoes, eggplant, cotton, and garlic. While L. taurica can infect many different plants it is actually very host specific. Different races of L. taurica can only infect certain crops, and even specific cultivars within the same crop. An accurate way to describe its host specificity is that this disease is, “a composite species consisting of many host-specific races." Symptoms of Onion Powdery Mildew (OPM) are usually seen as circular or oblong lesions that are 5 to 20 mm and have a chlorotic or necrotic appearance. The lesions appear on older leaves before the bulb of the onion begins to form, but also can occur on the younger leaves towards the end of the season. As the disease progresses signs of OPM can also be seen. On the lesions white mycelium can be found with conidiophores bearing either lanceolate or rounded condia.	 chickpea Leveillula taurica

One of the most harmful seed and soil borne pathogens, Macrophomina phaseolina is a fungus that infects nearly 500 plant species in more than 100 families. The hosts include: peanut, cabbage, pepper, chickpea, soybean, sunflower, sweet potato, alfalfa, sesame, potato, sorghum, wheat, and corn, among others. The identification of isolates of M. phaseolina is usually based on morphology and efforts to divide the pathogen into subspecies, but because there are wide intraspecific variations in the phenotype of the isolates, these criteria are often not reliable. The failure to correctly detect and identify M. phaseolina using conventional culture-based morphological techniques has led scientists to develop nucleic acid-based molecular approaches, such as highly sensitive and specific polymerase chain reaction-based methods. Researchers have also recently created species-specific oligonucleotide primers and digoxigenin-labeled probes in hopes of better identifying and detecting M. phaseolina.The pathogen M. phaseolina affects the fibrovascular system of the roots and basal internodes of its host, impeding the transport of water and nutrients to the upper parts of the plant. As a result, progressive wilting, premature dying, loss of vigor, and reduced yield are characteristic symptoms of M. phaseolina infection. The fungus also causes many diseases like damping off, seedling blight, collar rot, stem rot, charcoal rot, basal stem rot, and root rot. Although brown lesions may form on the hypocotyls or emerging seedlings, many symptoms occur during or after flowering, including grey discoloration of the stem and taproots, shredding of plant tissue in the stem and top of the taproot, and hollowing of the stem. Small black dots may form beneath the epidermis of the lower stem and in the taproot, giving the stems and roots a charcoal-sprinkled appearance. When the epidermis is removed, small and black microsclerotia (a sign of the disease) may be so numerous that they give a greyish-black tint to the plant tissue. In addition, reddish-brown discoloration and black streaks can form in the pith and vascular tissues of the root and stem.	 chickpea Macrophomina phaseolina

These nematodes cause symptoms both on leaves and roots. Foliar symptoms of root-knot disease may be expressed at any time during the growing season. These symptoms of nematode damage on peanut plants range from stunting, yellowing, wilting and even plant death.  Ferris (1999–2012), also reported that nematodes cause yellowing; mid-day wilting; symptoms of water and nutrient stress; and sometimes death, especially if the nematode is interacting with other organisms.  They can appear in a peanut crop beginning about 100 days after planting or after periods of dry hot weather.  Areas of root-knot nematode damaged peanut are usually round to oblong in shape, and rows of infected plants may never overlap as those of healthy plants. It is common for plants to wilt and eventually die in areas where nematode populations are high.Root symptoms are similar to those caused by all nematodes including a reduction in number of feeder roots and root stunting, but root knot nematodes cause unique symptoms on roots and pods. Nematodes cause galls (knots) to form on both roots and pods of the peanut, and these galls are highly diagnostic for root-knot nematode presence compared to other nematodes affecting peanut. The presence of galls on roots, pegs and pods appears as single or multiple wart-like growths that may or may not be discolored. As root knot nematode infection progresses, and generally later in the season, secondary root and pod rots cause further damage and eventual death of the plants.Many soil-borne fungi, especially Sclerotium rolfsii (which causes southern stem rot) and Sclerotinia minor (which causes Sclerotinia blight), will infect the weakened peanut plants and cause more plant death. Root knot nematode infection of the peg weakens the peg so that it breaks during harvest, contributing to additional yield losses because the detached pods are then left in the soil. Infection of the pods leads to a decline in yield quality.The damage threshold, or the initial nematode population density at which peanut yields begin to decline, has been reported to be in the range of 1 to 10 eggs and second stage juveniles per 500 cm3 soil for M. arenaria on susceptible peanut cultivars.	 chickpea Meloidogyne arenaria

Plants affected by M. incognita present above ground symptoms of water- and nutrient-stress, yellowing, wilting, and stunting. Below ground galling on roots, bulbs, tubers is the typical symptom. Plant death may occur in high infestation level.	 chickpea Meloidogyne incognita

Because there are so many different hosts for this pathogen, the symptoms are very variable. Common symptoms include abnormal leaf color, abnormal leaf form, wilting leaves, galls, swollen roots, reduced root system, dwarfing and senescence (Cabi 2018). This pathogen does the most damage when present in light soils with hot weather conditions (Alford 2012).	 chickpea Meloidogyne javanica

Once ascochyta blight has infected a healthy chickpea plant, it will start to develop lesions on all aerial plant parts. If a seed pod becomes infected, it may initially be asymptomatic, but will eventually develop dark lesions on the surface of the seed coats.	 chickpea Mycosphaerella rabiei

L. taurica is the pathogen responsible for powdery mildew on onions, but it can also infect peppers, tomatoes, eggplant, cotton, and garlic. While L. taurica can infect many different plants it is actually very host specific. Different races of L. taurica can only infect certain crops, and even specific cultivars within the same crop. An accurate way to describe its host specificity is that this disease is, “a composite species consisting of many host-specific races." Symptoms of Onion Powdery Mildew (OPM) are usually seen as circular or oblong lesions that are 5 to 20 mm and have a chlorotic or necrotic appearance. The lesions appear on older leaves before the bulb of the onion begins to form, but also can occur on the younger leaves towards the end of the season. As the disease progresses signs of OPM can also be seen. On the lesions white mycelium can be found with conidiophores bearing either lanceolate or rounded condia.	 chickpea Oidiopsis taurica

This species is reported to be pathogenic on grandiflora petunia (Petunia × atkinsiana). It causes root rot, shoot rot and shanking in tulips. It also infects blue daze (Evolvulus glomeratus), dusty miller (Jacobaea maritima), Barberton daisy (Gerbera jamesonii), and garden verbena (Verbena × hybrida). Like its relative Phytophtora cambivora, it can cause ink disease of chestnuts (Castanea sativa).The species is a cause of foot rot in tomatoes, causing discoloration and lesion in the stem. Progression of lesions leads to girdling, root system rot and plant collapse. Foliage will not be affected until plant stem has become girdled.	 chickpea Phytophthora cryptogea

Phytoplasmas can infect and cause various symptoms in more than 700 plant species. One characteristic symptom is abnormal floral organ development including phyllody (i.e., the production of leaf-like structures in place of flowers) and virescence (i.e., the development of green flowers attributable to a loss of pigment by petal cells). Phytoplasma-harboring flowering plants may nevertheless be sterile. The expression of genes involved in maintaining the apical meristem or in the development of floral organs is altered in the morphologically affected floral organs of phytoplasma-infected plants.A phytoplasma infection often triggers leaf yellowing, probably due to the presence of phytoplasma cells in phloem, which can affect phloem function and carbohydrate transport, inhibit chlorophyll biosynthesis, and trigger chlorophyll breakdown. These symptoms may be attributable to stress caused by the infection rather than a specific pathogenetic process.Many phytoplasma-infected plants develop a bushy or "witches' broom" appearance due to changes in their normal growth patterns. Most plants exhibit apical dominance but infection can trigger the proliferation of axillary (side) shoots and a reduction in internode size. Such symptoms are actually useful in the commercial production of poinsettias. Infection triggers more axillary shoot production; the poinsettia plants thus produce more than a single flower.	 chickpea Phytoplasma

Pythium irregulare is an oomycete that causes pre- and post-emergence damping off, as well as root rot. Pre-emergence damping off occurs when P. irregulare infects seeds before they emerge, causing them to rot and turn brown, thus preventing successful growth. Alternatively, post-emergence damping off occurs when the oomycete infects just after the seed has germinated. This usually causes infection in the roots and stem which appears as water soaking and necrosis. Depending on the severity, plants may collapse or be severely stunted. In plants that are older and more established, P. irregulare causes root rot. This will initially cause necrotic lesions, which leads to chlorosis, reduced yield, poor growth, and stunting due to inadequate water and nutrient acquisition by the roots. Additionally, P. irregulare is often found coinfecting with other Pythium species. All three of these diseases caused by P. irregulare can be caused by other pathogens as well, so a disease diagnosis is not necessarily indicative of P. irregulareIn order to identify Pythium irregulare it is necessary to isolate the organism and observe it microscopically. First, it is important to identify that the microbe is an oomycete by looking for characteristics that are specific to oomycetes, such as coenocytic hyphae, zoospores, and oospores. After that, one can identify the microbe as being in the genera Pythium by observing disease symptoms, host range, as well as the presence of a vesicle, where zoospores form, which is attached to the sporangia. In contrast, most other oomycetes do not have a vesicle and the zoospores form in the sporangia. Finally, once the genera has been identified, it is helpful to use a dichotomous key to identify the species. Some of the key identifiers for P. irregulare include oogonia with irregular shaped, cylindrical projections, sporangia that occur singly, sporangia that are not filamentous, and oogonia smaller than 30 μm. There are also many genomic tests that can be done to determine species based on specific DNA markers. It is also important to note that many diagnosticians do not identify to the species level because it can be difficult to find all necessary microscopic structures and many management techniques can be applied to all Pythium species.Pythium irregulare has a very broad host range, including many agronomically and horticulturally important crops and is found on every continent except for Antarctica. P. irregulare infects over 200 species, including cereals, legumes, fruits, vegetables, and ornamentals. It differs from many other Pythium species in that it prefers cooler environments. A moist environment is also necessary for disease, which aids motility of spores. It is commonly found in both greenhouses and fields.	 chickpea Pythium irregulare

One of the most harmful seed and soil borne pathogens, Macrophomina phaseolina is a fungus that infects nearly 500 plant species in more than 100 families. The hosts include: peanut, cabbage, pepper, chickpea, soybean, sunflower, sweet potato, alfalfa, sesame, potato, sorghum, wheat, and corn, among others. The identification of isolates of M. phaseolina is usually based on morphology and efforts to divide the pathogen into subspecies, but because there are wide intraspecific variations in the phenotype of the isolates, these criteria are often not reliable. The failure to correctly detect and identify M. phaseolina using conventional culture-based morphological techniques has led scientists to develop nucleic acid-based molecular approaches, such as highly sensitive and specific polymerase chain reaction-based methods. Researchers have also recently created species-specific oligonucleotide primers and digoxigenin-labeled probes in hopes of better identifying and detecting M. phaseolina.The pathogen M. phaseolina affects the fibrovascular system of the roots and basal internodes of its host, impeding the transport of water and nutrients to the upper parts of the plant. As a result, progressive wilting, premature dying, loss of vigor, and reduced yield are characteristic symptoms of M. phaseolina infection. The fungus also causes many diseases like damping off, seedling blight, collar rot, stem rot, charcoal rot, basal stem rot, and root rot. Although brown lesions may form on the hypocotyls or emerging seedlings, many symptoms occur during or after flowering, including grey discoloration of the stem and taproots, shredding of plant tissue in the stem and top of the taproot, and hollowing of the stem. Small black dots may form beneath the epidermis of the lower stem and in the taproot, giving the stems and roots a charcoal-sprinkled appearance. When the epidermis is removed, small and black microsclerotia (a sign of the disease) may be so numerous that they give a greyish-black tint to the plant tissue. In addition, reddish-brown discoloration and black streaks can form in the pith and vascular tissues of the root and stem.	 chickpea Rhizoctonia bataticola

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 chickpea Rhizoctonia solani

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 chickpea Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

There are many strains of Verticillium dahliae which are categorized into vegetative compatibility groups (VCG). These groups comprise strains that are able to exchange genetic material via anastomosis. Each VCG affects a few or only one host and the virulence of the pathogen varies by host. While individual V. dahliae strains are relatively host specific, as a species it has a wide range.Verticillium dahliae has a very wide host range, affecting over 300 plant species. Some susceptible crops include Brussels sprouts, cabbage, eggplant, cucumbers, mint, pepper, potatoes, pumpkin, spinach, tomato, watermelon, honeydew, and cantaloupe. Of these, tomato, potato, and eggplant have resistant or tolerant varieties.Symptoms of this disease are seen throughout the plant. Leaves may have abnormal coloration, necrotic areas, wilt, and/or fall off the plant. The stem may have discolored vascular tissue, exhibit rosetting (shortened internodes of the plant caused by reduced growth, resulting in a rosette-like appearance), and/or be stunted. Early senescence and dieback may also occur.Microsclerotia can be seen under a lens as small black structures in the vasculature of living and dead plants. This feature can be used to distinguish V. dahliae from V. albo-atrum, the other verticillium wilt pathogen.	 chickpea Verticillium dahliae

A. ritezmabosi has a wide host range of almost 200 plant species, and is an important disease in chrysanthemum and other ornamentals.  Other ornamental hosts of A. ritzemabosi are anemones, asters, carnations, Chinaster, cinerarias, coneflowers,crassulas, creeping bellflower, dahlias, delphiniums, elders, lupines, monkeyflower, phlox,pouchflower, rhododendrons, sages, Siberian wallflower, water peperomia, and zinnias.A common symptom of A. ritezmabosi is seen when the nematode is feeding in the foliar tissue.  Angular lesions are formed, which are chlorotic at first then turn necrotic as the feeding persists.  A sign that an A. ritzeambosi nematode is feeding in the bud of a plant is brown scars on the bud and surrounding tissue.  The nematode also produces secretions that have the ability to cause several other symptoms in infested plants including shortening of inter-nodes, creating a bushy appearance, browning and failure of the shoot to grow, as well as distorted leaf formation.	 cineraria Aphelenchoides ritzemabosi

Aster yellows affects a long list of plant species including native plants, annual flowering plants, ornamentals, weeds, and vegetables crops. The largest family affected is the Asteraceae, and ornamental plants commonly infected are asters, marigolds, coreopsis, sunflowers, and purple coneflower.  Regarding vegetable crops, onion, lettuce, celery, and carrot are affected with the latter suffering the greatest losses.The range of characteristic symptoms varies by the phytoplasma strain, timing of infection, plant species, temperature, age, and size of the plant. The symptoms can be mistaken for herbicide damage or virus symptoms.  They include vein clearing until the entire leaf becomes chlorotic, stunting, deformation, virescence (greening of flowers), phyllody (development of leaf-like flower petals), reddening of foliage, reduced root system, and sterility.  Aster yellows does not typically kill perennial host plants. The symptoms caused by the disease are exacerbated by hot climates while some plants in cooler climates may be asymptomatic.Characteristic symptoms specific to the carrot include initial vein clearing and chlorosis, followed by production of many adventitious shoots, with the tops looking like a witches’-broom.  The internodes of such shoots are short as are the leaf petioles.  Young leaves are smaller and dry up while the petioles of older leaves twist and break off.  Any remaining older leaves turn bronze or red late in the season.  Floral parts are deformed and roots are smaller, abnormally shaped, and have woolly secondary roots.  The carrot roots are predisposed to soft rots in the field and storage and taste unpleasant to the consumer.	 cineraria Aster yellows

INSV has a wide host range and can be found in over 300 plant species including weeds, fruits, vegetables and ornamental crops. Of these, the most severely affected include tomatoes, lettuce, pepper and peppermint as well as most all ornamentals. Symptoms of infection include a downward curling of the leaves, leaf tip dieback, stunting, necrosis of growing leaf tips, sunken ‘chicken pox-like’ spots on leaves (often with a surrounding halo), stem death and yellowing.  Since these symptoms are so generic, extreme caution must be taken when introducing new plants to your greenhouse. Infected plants can not be cured and not all hosts display visible symptoms Western Flower Thrips are extremely hard to remove from their host plants, as they often dig themselves deep into blossoms, buds and other areas hard to reach with insecticides. So, even if plants are sprayed regularly with insecticide, INSV and other insect vectored viruses can not always be ruled out when forming diagnosis.Temperature and host both play an important factor when discussing the symptoms which an INSV infected plant will display. When New Guinea Impatiens are cultivated in an environment varying between 75 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit the host plant will be highly symptomatic. However, when New Guinea Impatiens are grown in an environment just 10 degrees cooler it is unlikely for there to be any observable symptoms of disease.	 cineraria Impatiens necrotic spot virus

Because there are so many different hosts for this pathogen, the symptoms are very variable. Common symptoms include abnormal leaf color, abnormal leaf form, wilting leaves, galls, swollen roots, reduced root system, dwarfing and senescence (Cabi 2018). This pathogen does the most damage when present in light soils with hot weather conditions (Alford 2012).	 cineraria Meloidogyne javanica

The host range for Phytophythora cinnamomi is very broad. It is distributed worldwide and causes disease on hundreds of hosts. The disease affects a range of economic groups, including food crops such as avocado and pineapple as well as trees and woody ornamentals such as Fraser firs, shortleaf pines, loblolly pines, azaleas, camellia, boxwood, causing root rot and dieback. It is a root pathogen that causes root rot and death of host plants. Some symptoms include: wilting, decreased fruit size, decrease in yield, collar rot, gum exudation, necrosis, leaf chlorosis, leaf curl, and stem cankers. Another symptom is that it can cause dieback of young shoots and may interfere with transpiration of roots to shoots. Older plants may not exhibit symptoms or may display only mild dieback despite having severe root rot.	 cineraria Phytophthora cinnamomi

This species is reported to be pathogenic on grandiflora petunia (Petunia × atkinsiana). It causes root rot, shoot rot and shanking in tulips. It also infects blue daze (Evolvulus glomeratus), dusty miller (Jacobaea maritima), Barberton daisy (Gerbera jamesonii), and garden verbena (Verbena × hybrida). Like its relative Phytophtora cambivora, it can cause ink disease of chestnuts (Castanea sativa).The species is a cause of foot rot in tomatoes, causing discoloration and lesion in the stem. Progression of lesions leads to girdling, root system rot and plant collapse. Foliage will not be affected until plant stem has become girdled.	 cineraria Phytophthora cryptogea

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 cineraria Phytophthora parasitica

Plasmopara halstedii is an obligate biotroph that attacks the flowering plants of the family Asteraceae, found to infect the genus’ Helianthus, Bidens, Artemisia, and Xanthium. The pathogen has the strongest impact on Helianthus, degrading flower yields in the species H. argophyllus, H. debilis, H. petiolaris and H. annuus. H. annuus, the common sunflower, is also the most common host of P. halstedii. Xanthium strumarium, the common cocklebur, and Ambrosia artemisiifolia, or ragweed, have been shown to act as significant wild hosts.Plasmopara halstedii causes significant yield losses due to the production of infertile sunflowers. Infertility due to P. halstedii is a result of sporulation on the flowering bodies as well as seed damping off due to root infection. Other symptoms include plant stunting, chlorosis, root browning and alteration of secondary metabolism of infected plants.As an oomycete, P. halstedii releases motile zoospores as secondary inoculum. In these cases, secondary infection symptoms are much less severe than primary symptoms. A sign of the disease is the “typical downy appearance” resulting from sporulation on the bottom surface of the leaves.	 cineraria Plasmopara halstedii

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 cineraria Rhizoctonia solani

The pathogen that causes powdery mildew of hops was once considered to be Sphaerotheca macularis, which is capable of infecting many plants; however, in recent years, the pathogen that causes powdery mildew of hops has been taxonomically classified as Podosphaera macularis. This ascomycete is only known to be pathogenic on hop plants, including both ornamental and wild hops, and Cannabis sativa. The host range of many Podosphaera macularis strains is restricted by the existence of resistant hop varieties, such as the “Nugget” variety of Washington state and Oregon, although in recent years, resistance within this hop variety has been overcome in the laboratory. When disease does occur, early symptoms include chlorotic spots on the leaves of hop plants. Spots may fade to gray or white as the season progresses. Signs include white clusters of hyphae, which are often present on the leaves, and in some cases can infect the cone itself. If this infection occurs, a brown, necrotic lesion may develop. When both mating types exist within a population, chleistothecia can form and are visible as small, black dots on the undersides of leaves.	 cineraria Sphaerotheca macularis

TSWV infects a variety of hosts, contributing to its global economic impact on crops. There are over a thousand different hosts for TSWV. The host range of TSWV includes agronomically important crops like tomatoes and tobacco. The symptoms of TSWV vary from host to host. There is also variability of symptoms within a single type of host due to the age of the plant, nutrition and the environment (especially temperature). Common symptoms include stunting, ringspots on fruit and necrosis of leaves. There are many different strains of TSWV, and differences in symptoms may also be attributed to the differences in the number of strains present.	 cineraria Tomato spotted wilt virus

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 citrus Alternaria alternata

Alternaria citri is an ascomycete fungal plant pathogen that causes black rot in citrus plants. Specifically, certain lemon, lime, orange, mandarin and grapefruit species are susceptible hosts for this pathogen. The host is more susceptible to disease in climates with dry, warm summers and cool, moist winters. One symptom of the pathogen is the black rot that is produced. The black hyphae that form on the surface of the plant is a sign of the actual pathogen. While healthy and uninfected fruits will display a particular hue, a plant infected by A. citri will possess atypical and usually more brightly colored fruits which signifies presence of the pathogen.	 citrus Alternaria citri

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 citrus Alternaria tenuis

Armillaria mellea typically infects hardwood trees and conifers but sometimes will infect non-woody monocots and a few herbaceous plants. There are few signs, and the ones that do exist are often hard to find. The most prominent sign is honey-colored mushrooms at the base of the infected plant. Additional signs include white, fan-shaped mycelia and black rhizomorphs with diameters between 1/32nd of an inch and 1/8th of an inch. These usually are not as noticeable because they occur beneath the bark and in the soil, respectively. The symptoms are much more numerous, including slower growth, dieback of branches, yellowing foliage, rotted wood at base and/or roots, external cankers, cracking bark, bleeding stem, leaf wilting, defoliation, and rapid death. Leaf wilting, defoliation, and dieback occur after the destruction of the cambium.	 citrus Armillaria mellea

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 citrus Botryodiplodia theobromae

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 citrus Botryosphaeria rhodina

Botryosphaeria ribis is an ascomycete plant pathogen that primarily affects woody hosts in a number of temperate and tropical regions. The susceptible hosts include a number of economically important plants such as apple, peach, almond, banana, and walnut trees, among others.  The disease is noted by cankers, leaf spots, and necrosis, as well as twig dieback. On healthy leaves, the necrosis begins apically at the margins, extending back along the midrib, occasionally reaching the base and causing complete blight of the leaf.  Twig dieback also starts apically and works towards the center of the plant.  It is characterized by a slow necrosis of the branch, leaving large, dead limbs on the upper portions of trees.  Under the microscope, it can be identified by its immersed, pyriform perithecia (pear-shaped, spore-containing structures), which have a brown exterior wall.  The ascospores within the perithecia are ellipsoid in shape, with a smooth exterior and granular cytoplasm.  The anamorph (asexual stage) of B. ribis is Fusicoccum ribis, and although less abundant, it is characterized by globose pycnidia containing smooth, hyaline macro- and microconidia.  These symptoms have the potential to significantly decrease yield or kill the host.	 citrus Botryosphaeria ribis

Other symptoms include leaf epinasty, stunting, and necrosis of the leaf midvein. Affected trees will show rootstock "shelling" where the bark peels off of the rootstock – the lower tree that the main orange cultivar was grafted onto. Generally trifoliate orange rootstocks and their hybrids are susceptible.	 citrus Citrus exocortis

Other symptoms include leaf epinasty, stunting, and necrosis of the leaf midvein. Affected trees will show rootstock "shelling" where the bark peels off of the rootstock – the lower tree that the main orange cultivar was grafted onto. Generally trifoliate orange rootstocks and their hybrids are susceptible.	 citrus Citrus exocortis viroid

HLB is distinguished by the common symptoms of yellowing of the veins and adjacent tissues; followed by splotchy mottling of the entire leaf, premature defoliation, dieback of twigs, decay of feeder rootlets and lateral roots, and decline in vigor, ultimately followed by the death of the entire plant. Affected trees have stunted growth, bear multiple off-season flowers (most of which fall off), and produce small, irregularly shaped fruit with a thick, pale peel that remains green at the bottom and tastes very bitter. Common symptoms can often be mistaken for nutrient deficiencies; however, the distinguishing factor between nutrient deficiencies is the pattern of symmetry. Nutrient deficiencies tend to be symmetrical along the leaf vein margin, while HLB has an asymmetrical yellowing around the vein. The most noticeable symptom of HLB is greening and stunting of the fruit, especially after ripening.	 citrus Citrus greening disease

Symptoms of citrus greening are numerous, and can be varied in citrus trees. A tree will develop yellow shoots instead of the expected deep green colors. The disease presents itself on the leaves by giving an asymmetrical blotchy-mottle appearance. This is the key diagnosing characteristic of citrus greening. On affected limbs, fruit tend to be lopsided. The fruit will also never ripen and have a sour taste, making them unmarketable for both juice and fresh fruit productions. In later stages of infection the tree will suffer from heavy leaf drop, high percentages of fruit drop, and deep twig die back. A greening positive citrus tree's canopies will be airy due to the defoliation the disease causes. After a tree becomes infected with citrus greening it becomes uneconomical and may die within 2–5 years.	 citrus Citrus production

As the name indicates, citrus stubborn disease affects citrus plants, most severely oranges (especially naval and mandarin varieties), grapefruit, and tangelo trees. Lemon and lime are also affected, but much less severely. CSD is an unusual case of a plant disease shared between a vector, weed, and unrelated crop.: 8 Symptoms of Citrus Stubborn disease are most prominent in immature plants but still appear on established trees. The primary symptom of Citrus Stubborn disease is the irregularity of fruit on the same tree. A tree with citrus stubborn disease will have fruits of differing sizes, shapes, and stages of maturity and typically lighter, smaller fruits than its healthy counterpart.  Affected fruits will often drop prior to maturity and often have a characteristic acorn-like shape, which is easily seen by cutting the fruit in half. Coloration of the fruit is also affected. The blossom end remains green while the stem end is colored in affected fruits. Farmers would most readily use these symptoms as indicators that their crop may have been infected with Spiroplasma citri.On leaves, Spiroplasma citri manifests itself as light mottling similar to that of nutrient deficiency and a more vertical orientation. Another indication of infection is bunchy growth caused by shortened internodes. Healthy plants will have comparably more outstretched branches and a rounded appearance. A tree with Citrus Stubborn Disease will have a very low yield and the fruit it does yield will not be comparable to a healthy fruit. Small leaves and upright, bunchy growth of branches is common in infected plants, as is dieback and leafdrop. However, Citrus stubborn does not affect canopy height, width, trunk diameter, and juice quality, regardless of the severity of the infection.Diagnosis can be difficult because the disease is not often severe enough to produce outwardly apparent symptoms. In addition, when it is evident that a tree is diseased, the symptoms are very common and could be attributed to numerous other pathogens or environmental factors. To truly confirm the presence of Spiroplasma citri it must be detected by PCR or a tissue culture with spiroplasmas must be produced. It has been shown that PCR is the most effective diagnostic tool for citrus stubborn disease.	 citrus Citrus stubborn disease

CTV infects several species of the plant genus, Citrus, including sour orange (Citrus aurantium) and any Citrus grafted onto sour orange rootstock, key lime and Seville orange (C. × aurantifolia), Hassaku orange and sweet orange (C. × sinensis), grapefruit (C. × paradisi), and mandarin (C. reticulata).CTV is also known to infect Aeglopsis chevalieri, Afraegle paniculata and Pamburus missionis of the citrus subfamily Aurantioideae, as well as Passiflora gracilis which belongs to an entirely different lineage of rosid plants.  CTV is distributed worldwide and can be found wherever citrus trees grow.Symptoms of CTV infection are highly variable and depend on several factors including host, virulence of the particular virus strain, and environmental conditions. The three most common groupings of symptoms are decline (quick and slow), stem-pitting, and seedling yellows.Decline is generally exhibited with sweet orange, mandarin, or grapefruit when they are grafted on infected sour orange rootstock.  This decline includes chlorotic leaves and general dieback of the infected tree.  Decline may be slow, lasting several months to years after the first symptoms are noticed.  In this case the infected tree will also show a bulge above the bud union and honeycombing on the inner face of the original sour orange root stock bark.  The decline may also be quick, resulting in host death just days after the first symptoms are noticed.Stem-pitting is another symptom of CTV that manifests in most host types under the proper conditions, and especially in Citrus trees grafted onto sour orange rootstock.  The host will develop pits in the trunk and stem.  This results is decreased tree vigor and reduced fruit yield.  This is typically caused by the more virulent strains of CTV.The third major symptom of CTV infection is seedling yellows.  This tends to occur on sour orange, Natsudaidai, lemon and buntan.  Symptoms include yellowing of foliage and general dieback.	 citrus Citrus tristeza virus

Armillaria species infect a wide variety of woody plants. In a survey of 250 permanent plots of trees in Albania, Armillaria tabescens affected multiple species of trees including fir species, where it invaded when the plant was stressed. Tsopelas et al. reported Armillaria tabescens to be more prevalent in areas where the trees were stressed due to limited moisture. In oak trees, it was slightly more damaging and could kill young trees. Armillaria tabescens was also recorded in poplar and eucalyptus plantations, and almond trees were found to be very susceptible to infection. The results of the study by Lushaj et al. showed that Armillaria tabescens was most frequently recorded on fruit and ornamental trees compared to the other species.Armillaria tabescens causes separation of the bark from the wood by the production of mycelial fans in the trunk, a common sign of Armillaria root rot. It also causes gummosis, patches of gummy material on the surface of plants, which occurs in response to an external stimulus which causes the plant to ooze sap. Other common symptoms are soft rot of cortex, dwarfing, dieback, wilting, and abnormal coloring of the leaves. Small trees are killed rapidly by Armillaria tabescens and the symptoms aren’t noticeable until the leaves wilt. However, on larger trees symptoms occur earlier and start as a thin crown with small leaves. A crown of a tree refers to any branches or foliage that are growing out from the trunk. Therefore, thinning of the crown would mean reduced branches and leaves. The trees eventually start yellowing and defoliating followed by fast wilting and dying of limbs. The fungus is a white rot so it breaks down lignin in the wood. The breaking down of the lignin leads to the trees becoming hollow.	 citrus Clitocybe tabescens

Colletotrichum acutatum has a broad host range, but is most important in strawberries. C.  acutatum on strawberries. The pathogen causes black spot of fruit, but can also be seen attacking the plant at its crowns, roots and leaves. After planting, stunting and yellowing as well as wilting may occur. General symptoms of the disease in other plants can also be seen on flowers, petioles, and roots.  Stems are also a prominent place to see symptoms. Lesions on the stem can appear dark colored, oval shaped, and possibly have immersed spots located on petioles and runners.  Once C.acutatum infects these parts of the plant, it can cause other diseases to unfold such as crown root rot, defoliation, bloom blight and fruit rot. Unfortunately, the most significant loss can be seen once the fruit is attacked. If the fruit is infected it will develop small brown spots (green fruit) or black spots (red fruit) and can expand throughout the fruits’ surface.	 citrus Colletotrichum acutatum

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 citrus Colletotrichum gloeosporioides

Erythricium salmonicolor has a very broad host range. The host plants of greatest importance include rubber, tea, coffee, cacao, grapefruit, orange, nutmeg, mango, apple, coca, and kola. Pink Disease can cause heavy losses including individual branch death to the loss of the whole tree in cases where the main stem or several branches are affected. E. salmonicolor causes girdling cankers which prevent the normal function of some physiological processes, eventually leading to defoliation and die-back of outer branches. On rubber trees, initial stages of infection appear as drops of latex and silky-white mycelial growth on the bark surface. In black pepper plants, sterile pink to white pustules approximately 1 mm in diameter appear on young green stems. In citrus trees, sterile pustules may appear first, and in some cases the trees may have oozing sap or gum. In cacao trees, first symptoms of infection usually present as a sparse white mycelium on the bark surface, which can be easily overlooked. Trees are most susceptible in areas with high levels of rainfall, such as tropical rainforests. Diagnosis of Pink Disease is typically achieved through the use of light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy to observe sporulation of the pathogen.	 citrus Corticium salmonicolor

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 citrus Diplodia natalensis

Erythricium salmonicolor has a very broad host range. The host plants of greatest importance include rubber, tea, coffee, cacao, grapefruit, orange, nutmeg, mango, apple, coca, and kola. Pink Disease can cause heavy losses including individual branch death to the loss of the whole tree in cases where the main stem or several branches are affected. E. salmonicolor causes girdling cankers which prevent the normal function of some physiological processes, eventually leading to defoliation and die-back of outer branches. On rubber trees, initial stages of infection appear as drops of latex and silky-white mycelial growth on the bark surface. In black pepper plants, sterile pink to white pustules approximately 1 mm in diameter appear on young green stems. In citrus trees, sterile pustules may appear first, and in some cases the trees may have oozing sap or gum. In cacao trees, first symptoms of infection usually present as a sparse white mycelium on the bark surface, which can be easily overlooked. Trees are most susceptible in areas with high levels of rainfall, such as tropical rainforests. Diagnosis of Pink Disease is typically achieved through the use of light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy to observe sporulation of the pathogen.	 citrus Erythricium salmonicolor

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 citrus Fusarium solani

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 citrus Glomerella cingulata

HLB is distinguished by the common symptoms of yellowing of the veins and adjacent tissues; followed by splotchy mottling of the entire leaf, premature defoliation, dieback of twigs, decay of feeder rootlets and lateral roots, and decline in vigor, ultimately followed by the death of the entire plant. Affected trees have stunted growth, bear multiple off-season flowers (most of which fall off), and produce small, irregularly shaped fruit with a thick, pale peel that remains green at the bottom and tastes very bitter. Common symptoms can often be mistaken for nutrient deficiencies; however, the distinguishing factor between nutrient deficiencies is the pattern of symmetry. Nutrient deficiencies tend to be symmetrical along the leaf vein margin, while HLB has an asymmetrical yellowing around the vein. The most noticeable symptom of HLB is greening and stunting of the fruit, especially after ripening.	 citrus Huanglongbing

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 citrus Lasiodiplodia theobromae

One of the most harmful seed and soil borne pathogens, Macrophomina phaseolina is a fungus that infects nearly 500 plant species in more than 100 families. The hosts include: peanut, cabbage, pepper, chickpea, soybean, sunflower, sweet potato, alfalfa, sesame, potato, sorghum, wheat, and corn, among others. The identification of isolates of M. phaseolina is usually based on morphology and efforts to divide the pathogen into subspecies, but because there are wide intraspecific variations in the phenotype of the isolates, these criteria are often not reliable. The failure to correctly detect and identify M. phaseolina using conventional culture-based morphological techniques has led scientists to develop nucleic acid-based molecular approaches, such as highly sensitive and specific polymerase chain reaction-based methods. Researchers have also recently created species-specific oligonucleotide primers and digoxigenin-labeled probes in hopes of better identifying and detecting M. phaseolina.The pathogen M. phaseolina affects the fibrovascular system of the roots and basal internodes of its host, impeding the transport of water and nutrients to the upper parts of the plant. As a result, progressive wilting, premature dying, loss of vigor, and reduced yield are characteristic symptoms of M. phaseolina infection. The fungus also causes many diseases like damping off, seedling blight, collar rot, stem rot, charcoal rot, basal stem rot, and root rot. Although brown lesions may form on the hypocotyls or emerging seedlings, many symptoms occur during or after flowering, including grey discoloration of the stem and taproots, shredding of plant tissue in the stem and top of the taproot, and hollowing of the stem. Small black dots may form beneath the epidermis of the lower stem and in the taproot, giving the stems and roots a charcoal-sprinkled appearance. When the epidermis is removed, small and black microsclerotia (a sign of the disease) may be so numerous that they give a greyish-black tint to the plant tissue. In addition, reddish-brown discoloration and black streaks can form in the pith and vascular tissues of the root and stem.	 citrus Macrophomina phaseolina

Erythricium salmonicolor has a very broad host range. The host plants of greatest importance include rubber, tea, coffee, cacao, grapefruit, orange, nutmeg, mango, apple, coca, and kola. Pink Disease can cause heavy losses including individual branch death to the loss of the whole tree in cases where the main stem or several branches are affected. E. salmonicolor causes girdling cankers which prevent the normal function of some physiological processes, eventually leading to defoliation and die-back of outer branches. On rubber trees, initial stages of infection appear as drops of latex and silky-white mycelial growth on the bark surface. In black pepper plants, sterile pink to white pustules approximately 1 mm in diameter appear on young green stems. In citrus trees, sterile pustules may appear first, and in some cases the trees may have oozing sap or gum. In cacao trees, first symptoms of infection usually present as a sparse white mycelium on the bark surface, which can be easily overlooked. Trees are most susceptible in areas with high levels of rainfall, such as tropical rainforests. Diagnosis of Pink Disease is typically achieved through the use of light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy to observe sporulation of the pathogen.	 citrus Necator decretus

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 citrus Nectria haematococca

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 citrus Pellicularia filamentosa

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 citrus Phymatotrichopsis omnivora

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 citrus Phytophthora nicotianae var. parasitica

Although the common name of Phytophthora palmivora is bud rot of palms, and its Latin name means "plant destroyer" and "palm eater", it affects many tropical plants and has a moderately broad host range. P. palmivora is well studied in coconuts and papaya trees, however there are multiple hosts that are less commonly studied.  One common symptom of P. palmivora is fruit rots which are found in papaya, citrus, coconuts, durian, and cacao. Root rots are another symptom of P. palmivora and can be seen in red maples, citrus, papaya, mango, durian, and black pepper. Another symptom is the presence of cankers which are found in red maple, papaya, rubber, mangos, and cacao. Bud rots can also be seen in papaya and coconuts infected with P. palmivora. Bud rots are also found in Palmyra palms and coconut palms. Collar rots are found on citrus, mango, and black pepper infected with P. palmivora. The signs of P. palmivora are microscopic and can be differentiated from other oomycetes by the presence of oval shaped papillate sporangia with short pedicles and spherical oogonia with narrow stalks (Widmer, 2014).	 citrus Phytophthora palmivora

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 citrus Phytophthora parasitica

Phytoplasmas can infect and cause various symptoms in more than 700 plant species. One characteristic symptom is abnormal floral organ development including phyllody (i.e., the production of leaf-like structures in place of flowers) and virescence (i.e., the development of green flowers attributable to a loss of pigment by petal cells). Phytoplasma-harboring flowering plants may nevertheless be sterile. The expression of genes involved in maintaining the apical meristem or in the development of floral organs is altered in the morphologically affected floral organs of phytoplasma-infected plants.A phytoplasma infection often triggers leaf yellowing, probably due to the presence of phytoplasma cells in phloem, which can affect phloem function and carbohydrate transport, inhibit chlorophyll biosynthesis, and trigger chlorophyll breakdown. These symptoms may be attributable to stress caused by the infection rather than a specific pathogenetic process.Many phytoplasma-infected plants develop a bushy or "witches' broom" appearance due to changes in their normal growth patterns. Most plants exhibit apical dominance but infection can trigger the proliferation of axillary (side) shoots and a reduction in internode size. Such symptoms are actually useful in the commercial production of poinsettias. Infection triggers more axillary shoot production; the poinsettia plants thus produce more than a single flower.	 citrus Phytoplasma

Root lesion nematodes infect a great variety of hosts. Pratylenchus penetrans alone has over 350 host plants. They include agricultural crops such as soybeans, potatoes, corn, bananas, and wheat. The genus is found most often in corn. Signs of disease are similar in most plants and generally include necrotic lesions of the roots. The lesions can also be entrances for pathogenic bacteria and fungi, which produce secondary infections. Above ground the plant becomes stunted, chlorotic, and wilted, and it often dies. A crop field may be patchy as plants wither and die. Root lesion nematodes can cause significant yield losses.	 citrus Pratylenchus

Pythium aphanidermatum is responsible for pre- and post-emergence damping off.  Pre-emergence damping off is when the seed is infected prior to germination.  This can result in poor or no germination, and is observable as a browning or rotting of the seed.  Post-emergence damping off takes place after germination and results in a thinning, water-soaked stem near the plant collar, which eventually causes the collapse of the plant.  P. aphanidermatum can also cause root rot.  Symptoms of root rot include stunted growth, chlorotic leaves, leaf drop, and wilting.  The infection begins at the root tip, and can cause the infected region to lose its protective outer layer, exposing the inner root to other pathogens	 citrus Pythium aphanidermatum

Radopholus similis parasites can be found in tropical climates, and therefore infect a lot of plants native to tropical areas. Common hosts that are economically important include: banana, coconut, coffee, ginger, sugarcane, ornamentals, and tea. Although R. similis has not been found to infect citrus plants, it is closely related to another variety of burrowing nematodes, Radopholus citrophilus, that is a prominent pathogen to citrus plants. As with a plethora of root diseases, the main symptoms of an infection from burrowing nematodes are stunted growth, rotting roots, and necrotic roots. They are migratory endoparasites, and therefore can cause many localized necrotic patches throughout an infected root system. R. similis signs are generally only seen in the roots, but secondary symptoms such as wilting, weakened structure, and stunting can be caused by the root damage these parasites inflict. In fact, infection via these parasites is referred to as “banana toppling disease” in bananas because the plants often topple due to severe root damage by these nematodes. Prominent symptoms can also vary by host. Black pepper plants often undergo yellowing due to lack of nutrient uptake, ginger plants often become stunted and develop lesions, and tea plants also exhibit stunting and leaf loss.	 citrus Radopholus similis

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 citrus Rhizoctonia solani

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 citrus Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 citrus Thanatephorus cucumeris

Significant variation in symptoms is seen between diseases, though some symptoms are expressed across species. On a macroscopic scale, plants infected with a X. fastidiosa-related disease exhibit symptoms of water, zinc, and iron deficiencies, manifesting as leaf scorching and stunting in leaves turning them yellowish-brown, gummy substance around leaves, fruit reduction in size and quality, and overall plant height.  As the bacterium progressively colonizes xylem tissues, affected plants often block off their xylem tissue, which can limit the spread of this pathogen; blocking can occur in the form of polysaccharide-rich gels, tyloses, or both.  These plant defenses do not seem to hinder the movement of X. fastidiosa. Occlusion of vascular tissue, while a normal plant response to infection, makes symptoms significantly worse; as the bacterium itself also reduces vascular function, a 90% reduction of vascular hydraulic function was seen in susceptible Vitis vinifera.  This bacterium rarely completely blocks vascular tissue. There usually is a slight amount of vascular function that keeps the plant alive, but makes its fruit or branches die, making the specific plant economically nonproductive. This can cause a massive drop on supply of quality fruit. Smaller colonies usually occur throughout a high proportion of xylem vessels of a symptomatic plant.X. fastidiosa is a Gram-negative, xylem-limited illness that is spread by insects. It can damage a variety of broadleaved tree species that are commonly grown in the United States. X. Fastidiosa can be found in about 600 different plant species.Withering and desiccation of branchesLeaf chlorosisDwarfing or lack of growth of the plantDrooping appearance and shorter internodesShriveled fruits on infected plantsPremature fruit abscissiongum-like substance on leavehardening and size reduction of fruit	 citrus Xylella fastidiosa

An irregular browning leaf margin which may or may not be bordered by a pale halo.Symptoms re-occur every year, spreading throughout the tree crown, eventually killing the host plant.	 coconut palm Bacterial leaf scorch

There are a variety of hosts including but not limited to; banana, beans, cabbage, carrot, cassava, coffee, corn, cotton, onion, other crucifers, pepper, potato, sweet potato and tomato. Pandanus conoideus and karuka (Pandanus julianettii) get bacterial soft rot and necrosis on the leaves from Pectobacterium carotovorum subsp. carotovorum. For each host there are different symptoms displayed. Most symptoms are along the lines of watery and soft decay of the tissue. Cabbage and crucifers' symptoms start where the tissue makes contact with the soil. Often there is a change in color and in the case of a carrot, the whole taproot can be decayed leaving just the epidermis. Sweet potatoes show clear lesions that grow rapidly leaving a recognizable watery and soft, oozy tissue where only the peel remains intact.Potatoes experience a cream to tan colored tuber that becomes very soft and watery. A characteristic black border separates the diseased area and the healthy tissue. Only when the secondary organism invades the infected tissue does that decay become slimy with a foul odor. Like the carrot, the whole tuber can be consumed leaving just the epidermis in the soil. The foliage becomes weak and chlorotic with upward turned leaves and lesions on the stem. The stem also rots and becomes mushy with its colorless or brown lesions.	 coconut palm Bacterial soft rot

Symptoms of cadang-cadang develop slowly over 8 to 15 years making it difficult to diagnose at an early time. There are three main “stages” of defined series of characteristics: early, medium, and late stages.  The first symptoms in the early stage develop within two to four years of infection. These symptoms include scarification of the coconuts which also become rounded. The leaves (fronds) display bright yellow spots. About two years later, during the medium stage, the inflorescences become stunted and eventually killed, so no more coconuts are produced. Yellow spots are larger and in greater abundance to give the appearance of chlorosis. During the final stage, roughly 6 years after the first symptoms are recorded, the yellow/bronze fronds start to decrease in size and number. Finally, all the leaves coalesce, leaving just the trunk of the palm “standing like a telephone pole”.Palms under 10 years of age are rarely affected by cadang-cadang; the incidence of disease increases until about 40 years of age and then plateaus. "No recovery has ever been observed, and the disease is always fatal". African oil palm has similar symptoms as coconut but also have orange spotting on palms.	 coconut palm Cadang-cadang

Phytoplasmas can infect and cause various symptoms in more than 700 plant species. One characteristic symptom is abnormal floral organ development including phyllody (i.e., the production of leaf-like structures in place of flowers) and virescence (i.e., the development of green flowers attributable to a loss of pigment by petal cells). Phytoplasma-harboring flowering plants may nevertheless be sterile. The expression of genes involved in maintaining the apical meristem or in the development of floral organs is altered in the morphologically affected floral organs of phytoplasma-infected plants.A phytoplasma infection often triggers leaf yellowing, probably due to the presence of phytoplasma cells in phloem, which can affect phloem function and carbohydrate transport, inhibit chlorophyll biosynthesis, and trigger chlorophyll breakdown. These symptoms may be attributable to stress caused by the infection rather than a specific pathogenetic process.Many phytoplasma-infected plants develop a bushy or "witches' broom" appearance due to changes in their normal growth patterns. Most plants exhibit apical dominance but infection can trigger the proliferation of axillary (side) shoots and a reduction in internode size. Such symptoms are actually useful in the commercial production of poinsettias. Infection triggers more axillary shoot production; the poinsettia plants thus produce more than a single flower.	 coconut palm Candidatus Phytoplasma

Cephaleuros virescens is known to have a broad host range, the widest host range of the species. It has been recorded on 287 plant species and cultivars on the U.S. Gulf coast alone. Common hosts of the plant include tropical trees and shrubs, with the following being the more common or economically important; tea, kava, pepper, para rubber, magnolia, coffee, holly, Indian hawthorn, oil palm, avocado, vanilla, mango, breadfruit, guava, coconut, cashews, cacao, citrus, etc.Most commonly Cephaleuros virescens is identified by the leaf spots it causes. Theses leaf spots are an orange-brown rust in color and usually occur entirely on the upper leaf surface, although leaf spots on the undersides of infected leaves have been reported. The spots are fuzzy in texture and approximately 2 cm (0.8 in) in diameter. In some cases, commonly in more susceptible hosts, stem and fruit spots can occur as a result of infection as well. These leaf spots cause a reduction in plant photosynthetic surface area. While usually harmless, severe causes of these leaf spots can lead to defoliation, twig dieback, tissue necrosis, and loss of marketable fruit.	 coconut palm Cephaleuros virescens

One of the most well-known diseases caused by Ceratocystis paradoxa is Black rot or stem-end rot of pineapple, but it can also infect tropical fruit plants such as banana and coconuts as well as sugarcane. The pathogen infects the fruits through wounds or other openings after harvest has already happened and the fruit is fresh.Symptoms for this disease are very obvious black lesions on the fruit, the main infection part of the plant. If the pathogen infects the plant while fruits are still on it, they will prematurely drop. Other symptoms include discoloration of leaves as well as the seeds. The lesions on the fruit evolve to become soft rot spots that produce a heinous odor. The fruit can even get to the point of breakdown.Known hosts:Ananas comosus (pineapple)AraceaeAreca catechu (betelnut palm)Borassus flabellifer (toddy palm)Butia capitataCocos nucifera (coconut)Coffea (coffee)Daucus carota (carrot)Dypsis decaryiElaeis guineensis (African oil palm)EucalyptusHowea forsteriana (paradise palm)Mangifera indica (mango)Musa x paradisiaca (plantain)Phoenix dactylifera (date-palm)Saccharum officinarum (sugarcane)Solanum muricatum (melon pear)Theobroma cacao (cocoa)Zea mays (maize)	 coconut palm Ceratocystis paradoxa

Symptoms of cadang-cadang develop slowly over 8 to 15 years making it difficult to diagnose at an early time. There are three main “stages” of defined series of characteristics: early, medium, and late stages.  The first symptoms in the early stage develop within two to four years of infection. These symptoms include scarification of the coconuts which also become rounded. The leaves (fronds) display bright yellow spots. About two years later, during the medium stage, the inflorescences become stunted and eventually killed, so no more coconuts are produced. Yellow spots are larger and in greater abundance to give the appearance of chlorosis. During the final stage, roughly 6 years after the first symptoms are recorded, the yellow/bronze fronds start to decrease in size and number. Finally, all the leaves coalesce, leaving just the trunk of the palm “standing like a telephone pole”.Palms under 10 years of age are rarely affected by cadang-cadang; the incidence of disease increases until about 40 years of age and then plateaus. "No recovery has ever been observed, and the disease is always fatal". African oil palm has similar symptoms as coconut but also have orange spotting on palms.	 coconut palm Coconut cadang-cadang viroid

There are various symptoms associated with damping off; these reflect the variety of different pathogenic organisms which can cause the condition. However, all symptoms result in the death of at least some seedlings in any given population.Groups of seedlings may die in roughly circular patches, the seedlings sometimes having stem lesions at ground level. Stems of seedlings may also become thin and tough ("wire-stem") resulting in reduced seedling vigor. Leaf spotting sometimes accompanies other symptoms, as does a grey mold growth on stems and leaves. Roots sometimes rot completely or back to just discolored stumps.	 coconut palm Damping off

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 coconut palm Fusarium solani

Symptoms of Ganoderma zonatum are general decline in the health of the plant, wilting and discoloration of the leaves and slow growth. However, this is noticeable in many different plant diseases and can not be used as a diagnosis tool. There are only two ways to fully identify G. zonatum. One is the basidiocarp (or conk) forming on the plant with the other viewing the internal rotting of the palm on the inside once it has been cut down.	 coconut palm Ganoderma zonatum

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 coconut palm Glomerella cingulata

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 coconut palm Lasiodiplodia theobromae

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 coconut palm Pellicularia filamentosa

It has been shown that the fungus usually requires wounds to infect the plant and necessary for the fungus to develop. The first symptoms of Pestalotiopsis palmarum begin as very small yellow, brown or black discoloration of the leaves.  The disease can be restricted to the leaf blade or may only appear on the petiole and rachis right away.  Spots and discoloration areas can be smaller than 0.25 inches (6.4 mm) in size, but under optimal conditions can grow much larger eventually forming lesions.  The spots will often turn a grayish color and will be outlined in black.  Extreme wilting and a drying appearance on the leaves is also a major symptom of Pestalotiopsis palm.In mature palms, if the fungus is limited to only leaf spots, the disease may not be very serious and damaging.  However, the fungus can severely affect juvenile plants if only a few leaf spots are present because they have yet to develop a trunk and only have a few leaves.	 coconut palm Pestalotiopsis palmarum

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 coconut palm Phytophthora nicotianae

Although the common name of Phytophthora palmivora is bud rot of palms, and its Latin name means "plant destroyer" and "palm eater", it affects many tropical plants and has a moderately broad host range. P. palmivora is well studied in coconuts and papaya trees, however there are multiple hosts that are less commonly studied.  One common symptom of P. palmivora is fruit rots which are found in papaya, citrus, coconuts, durian, and cacao. Root rots are another symptom of P. palmivora and can be seen in red maples, citrus, papaya, mango, durian, and black pepper. Another symptom is the presence of cankers which are found in red maple, papaya, rubber, mangos, and cacao. Bud rots can also be seen in papaya and coconuts infected with P. palmivora. Bud rots are also found in Palmyra palms and coconut palms. Collar rots are found on citrus, mango, and black pepper infected with P. palmivora. The signs of P. palmivora are microscopic and can be differentiated from other oomycetes by the presence of oval shaped papillate sporangia with short pedicles and spherical oogonia with narrow stalks (Widmer, 2014).	 coconut palm Phytophthora palmivora

Phytoplasmas can infect and cause various symptoms in more than 700 plant species. One characteristic symptom is abnormal floral organ development including phyllody (i.e., the production of leaf-like structures in place of flowers) and virescence (i.e., the development of green flowers attributable to a loss of pigment by petal cells). Phytoplasma-harboring flowering plants may nevertheless be sterile. The expression of genes involved in maintaining the apical meristem or in the development of floral organs is altered in the morphologically affected floral organs of phytoplasma-infected plants.A phytoplasma infection often triggers leaf yellowing, probably due to the presence of phytoplasma cells in phloem, which can affect phloem function and carbohydrate transport, inhibit chlorophyll biosynthesis, and trigger chlorophyll breakdown. These symptoms may be attributable to stress caused by the infection rather than a specific pathogenetic process.Many phytoplasma-infected plants develop a bushy or "witches' broom" appearance due to changes in their normal growth patterns. Most plants exhibit apical dominance but infection can trigger the proliferation of axillary (side) shoots and a reduction in internode size. Such symptoms are actually useful in the commercial production of poinsettias. Infection triggers more axillary shoot production; the poinsettia plants thus produce more than a single flower.	 coconut palm Phytoplasma

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 coconut palm Rhizoctonia solani

The infestation of the pest can result in yellowing and wilting of palms, that may lead to the death of the affected plant.The crown wilts first, and lower leaves will follow, due to damage to vascular tissue. Major symptoms such as crown loss or leaf wilt are usually only visible long after the palm has become infested. Secondary infections of opportunistic bacteria and fungi may occur within damaged tissues, accelerating decline. By the time these external symptoms are observed, the damage is usually sufficient to kill the tree, and the infestation may have been present for six months or longer. In high-density infestations, sounds of the larvae burrowing and chewing can be heard by placing one's ear to the trunk of the palm. Recent research has been conducted using electronic listening devices or dogs trained to recognize the scent of weevils or palm decay to detect infestations at low densities earlier in the process.							 coconut palm Sago worm

It has been observed to almost exclusively attack the Canary Island palm, but is seen on other species. Since 2009, Texas Phoenix palm disease is known to severely affect the Phoenix spp. and Sabal spp. palm trees: Canary Island date palm, silver or sylvester date palm, Queen palm, Sabal palm, and cabbage palm. All of these trees have been observed to have the same symptoms. The complete host range of this phytoplasma strain is not known.If the palm tree is mature enough to produce fruit, it will experience two major symptoms. Premature drop of the majority or all of the fruit, within a short time period (about three days), is an obvious symptom. Soon after this, the flowers become necrotic. However, these symptoms can only be observed during flowering and fruiting season, and if the flowers have not been trimmed from the tree.At any palm age, early infection will show discoloration of the foliage, starting at the tips of the oldest leaves. The leaf colors change from the normal green to different shades of reddish-brown, to dark brown. Declining palm trees are characterized by a large number of discolored leaves in the lower and mid-crown region of the tree.When about a third of the oldest leaves become discolored, the spear leaf will die, displaying a tan, rather than green color. The spear leaf is the youngest leaf, generally seen in the center of the canopy. In obvious situations, the dead spear life can be seen hanging down or broken off of the canopy. This indicates that the apical meristem is dead and there will be no new leaf production or growth. In most cases, without close examination, the spear leaf will not be easy to find or observe if it is still alive. Occasionally, when the spear leaf dies, some palms experience root rot. This is a major symptom that differentiates TPPD from lethal yellowing, since LY does not experience root decay.	 coconut palm Texas phoenix palm decline

Armillaria mellea typically infects hardwood trees and conifers but sometimes will infect non-woody monocots and a few herbaceous plants. There are few signs, and the ones that do exist are often hard to find. The most prominent sign is honey-colored mushrooms at the base of the infected plant. Additional signs include white, fan-shaped mycelia and black rhizomorphs with diameters between 1/32nd of an inch and 1/8th of an inch. These usually are not as noticeable because they occur beneath the bark and in the soil, respectively. The symptoms are much more numerous, including slower growth, dieback of branches, yellowing foliage, rotted wood at base and/or roots, external cankers, cracking bark, bleeding stem, leaf wilting, defoliation, and rapid death. Leaf wilting, defoliation, and dieback occur after the destruction of the cambium.	 coffee Armillaria mellea

Ascochyta tarda is known as a noxious pathogen of Arabian or arabica coffee in Ethiopia, Kenya, and Cameroon and some countries in South-east Asia.  Leaf necrosis and die back on young branches are the most apparent symptoms. The necrotic spotting in young leaves expands to form brown leaf lesions largely covering the lamina. Pycnidia are found in the necrotic tissue and tarda refers to the late appearance of septa in conidia and the slow maturing habit of pycnospores (Stewart, 1957). The pycnidia are 70-110 microns in diameter.   The mature spores have oval and cylindrical shapes with dimensions of 2-3X9-14 microns and straight septa. Immature spores are oval shaped with dimensions 2-3X 4-9 microns may be predominantly or entirely aseptate (Boerema, G.H., de Gruyter, J., Noordeloos, M.M., Hamers, M.E.C., 2004 & Stewart, 1957).The primary infection of plants is by airborne ascospores that enter the coffee leaves via the stomata. Primary infection presents as lesions in the coffee leaf; the pycnidia develop in the lesions. Secondary spread of pycnidia occurs via contact and rain dispersal and this leads to more development of pycnidia in newly infected leaves with lesions. The pathogen overwinters as mycelium and pycnidia on crop debris, autumn sown crops and volunteer hosts.	 coffee Ascochyta tarda

Cephaleuros virescens is known to have a broad host range, the widest host range of the species. It has been recorded on 287 plant species and cultivars on the U.S. Gulf coast alone. Common hosts of the plant include tropical trees and shrubs, with the following being the more common or economically important; tea, kava, pepper, para rubber, magnolia, coffee, holly, Indian hawthorn, oil palm, avocado, vanilla, mango, breadfruit, guava, coconut, cashews, cacao, citrus, etc.Most commonly Cephaleuros virescens is identified by the leaf spots it causes. Theses leaf spots are an orange-brown rust in color and usually occur entirely on the upper leaf surface, although leaf spots on the undersides of infected leaves have been reported. The spots are fuzzy in texture and approximately 2 cm (0.8 in) in diameter. In some cases, commonly in more susceptible hosts, stem and fruit spots can occur as a result of infection as well. These leaf spots cause a reduction in plant photosynthetic surface area. While usually harmless, severe causes of these leaf spots can lead to defoliation, twig dieback, tissue necrosis, and loss of marketable fruit.	 coffee Cephaleuros virescens

Ceratocystis fimbriata is an ascomycete fungal pathogen. The species as a whole can infect a wide variety of hosts, but particular strains are host-specific. One example is the Ipomoea form of the fungus, which is specific to sweet potato (Ipomea batatas) and wild morning glory. Symptoms can be found on the fleshy root or visible in plants. On sweet potato, Ceratocystis fimbriata causes a disease called 'black rot,' which displays firm and dry circular brown/black rots. Infected plants often show stunted growth, wilting, and yellowing. Wilting occurs because this pathogen can also travel through xylem and infect vascular system. During disease, white, fuzzy mycelia with long black perithecia grow out from the lesions. Additionally, research demonstrates that sweet potatoes infected with C. fimbriata demonstrate increased respiration which is partially due to the infection's influence on protein metabolism. Higher respiration rates cause dry weight loss in the tubers which poses a problem for marketability.	 coffee Ceratocystis fimbriata

There are 40 species in the genus Coffea (family Rubiaceae) that are susceptible to the disease caused by M. coffeicola, but only a few that are commercially relevant. Arabica coffee (Coffea arabica L.) is the most significant of the susceptible species, affecting 70% of the world's coffee production. Coffea arabica ranges in growth habit from a shrub to a small tree and has ovate, shiny, pointed leaves, with clustered white flowers. The fruits begin as green berries which ripen to a deep red color. These are often called the coffee "cherries". Each fruit contains two seeds (i.e. coffee beans) in a drupe.Symptoms of M. coffeicola vary depending on the plant organ affected. These differing symptoms help explain the various common names for the disease: Cercospora "Leaf Spot" and Cercospora "Berry Blotch" (Cercospora is reference to the deuteromycete stage). On leaves, lesions begin as chlorotic (yellow) spots that expand to become deep brown and necrotic on the upper leaf surface. These spots often have a discolored, light center where sporulation can occur, and many have a yellow "halo" around the margins. This halo is caused by the toxin cercosporin, produced by Cercospora species. Not all lesions have distinct edges or a halo, however, and some occur in concentric rings. In general, lesions of this species are able to fuse, and can form large irregular areas of necrotic tissue. Leaves may drop in extreme cases. Fruit symptoms typically appear 90 days after flowering. On green berries, this includes irregularly shaped brown, sunken lesions that are surrounded by a purple halo. Infected red cherries also have large, dark areas of sunken flesh. At this stage, fruit is susceptible to attack by opportunistic bacteria and fungi (such as Colletotrichum gloeosporioides), though symptoms from these organisms should not be falsely attributed to M. coffeicola.	 coffee Cercospora coffeicola

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 coffee Colletotrichum gloeosporioides

Areca catechu (betelnut palm), Citrus reticulata (mandarin), Coffea arabica (arabica coffee), Coffea canephora (robusta coffee), Coffea liberica (Liberian coffee tree), Cyphomandra betacea (tree tomato), Eruca vesicaria (purple-vein rocket), Liquidambar styraciflua (Sweet gum), and Malus domestica (apple) are all hosts of C. kahawae. Infection can occur on all stages of the plant, from unopened inflorescences to ripe berries and occasionally leaves. The defining characteristic of C. kahawae is its ability to infect green berries; between 4–14 weeks after flowering it is most susceptible. There are two distinct symptoms of berry infections termed "active" and "scab" lesions. The common symptoms of the active lesions are dark brown, slightly sunken spots that begin small and eventually enlarges in area consuming the entire berry to become black. Consequently, the pulp becomes brown, hard, and brittle while the surface of the berry remains smooth (except for the fungal fruiting structures). Under humid conditions, the fruiting structures on the lesions may produce pink spore masses that become white with age. The scab lesions can be found on both young and mature berries in which the lesions are corky, pale tan in color, and slightly sunken. These lesions form stagnantly until the fruit begins to ripen creating a more beneficial environment for the fungus to grow. Secondary inoculum may be produced by the pathogen as seen by concentric rings that are surrounded by emerging black acervuli within the lesion. The active lesions will  result in the arrest of berry development depending on favorable weather conditions. This process will in turn result in berry mummification on the branch, and when the berry begins to ripen anthracnose will develop causing the bean to then become infected.	 coffee Colletotrichum kahawae

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 coffee Fusarium solani

Similar to other vascular wilt pathogens, the fungus colonizes the xylem and causes the flow of water to be cut off. It can be diagnosed by several visual signs.  The leaves can wilt, have vein necrosis, and abscission. The coffee bark, when scraped with a knife, will have a blue-black coloration. The berries will appear as though they are ripening prematurely but will stay on the coffee plant after the leaves have fallen off. Necrosis can often be seen near the collar of the plant.Young trees can be killed within a few days of infection while more mature coffee plants can survive up to 8 months.Gibberella xylarioides (Sexual form) will make purple perithecia and ascospores, but resting structures are rarely found in the soil. Fusarium xylarioides (Asexual form) make sickle shaped conidia and are spread by wind, rain, and human activities like weeding and harvesting.	 coffee Fusarium xylarioides

Similar to other vascular wilt pathogens, the fungus colonizes the xylem and causes the flow of water to be cut off. It can be diagnosed by several visual signs.  The leaves can wilt, have vein necrosis, and abscission. The coffee bark, when scraped with a knife, will have a blue-black coloration. The berries will appear as though they are ripening prematurely but will stay on the coffee plant after the leaves have fallen off. Necrosis can often be seen near the collar of the plant.Young trees can be killed within a few days of infection while more mature coffee plants can survive up to 8 months.Gibberella xylarioides (Sexual form) will make purple perithecia and ascospores, but resting structures are rarely found in the soil. Fusarium xylarioides (Asexual form) make sickle shaped conidia and are spread by wind, rain, and human activities like weeding and harvesting.	 coffee Gibberella xylarioides

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 coffee Glomerella cingulata

Erythricium salmonicolor has a very broad host range. The host plants of greatest importance include rubber, tea, coffee, cacao, grapefruit, orange, nutmeg, mango, apple, coca, and kola. Pink Disease can cause heavy losses including individual branch death to the loss of the whole tree in cases where the main stem or several branches are affected. E. salmonicolor causes girdling cankers which prevent the normal function of some physiological processes, eventually leading to defoliation and die-back of outer branches. On rubber trees, initial stages of infection appear as drops of latex and silky-white mycelial growth on the bark surface. In black pepper plants, sterile pink to white pustules approximately 1 mm in diameter appear on young green stems. In citrus trees, sterile pustules may appear first, and in some cases the trees may have oozing sap or gum. In cacao trees, first symptoms of infection usually present as a sparse white mycelium on the bark surface, which can be easily overlooked. Trees are most susceptible in areas with high levels of rainfall, such as tropical rainforests. Diagnosis of Pink Disease is typically achieved through the use of light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy to observe sporulation of the pathogen.	 coffee Phanerochaete salmonicolor

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 coffee Rhizoctonia solani

Symptoms appear as dark red to black lesions on the lower surface of the leaves. They appear as sunken lesions surrounded by a raised brown-black border on the pods, petioles and stems. Very small black fruiting bodies of the fungus are usually visible in older lesions.Other symptoms include shedding of leaves, flower and pod abortion.Infected seeds appear discoloured with brown or grey staining or dark flecks.	 common bean Colletotrichum dematium f. truncatum

Symptoms appear as dirty white, circular, floury patches on either sides of the leaves.Under favourable environmental conditions, entire leaves, stems, floral parts and pods are affected.The whole leaf may be covered with powdery mass.If persistent, mild chlorosis or necrosis can also occur.	 common bean Erysiphe polygoni

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 common bean Fusarium solani

One of the most harmful seed and soil borne pathogens, Macrophomina phaseolina is a fungus that infects nearly 500 plant species in more than 100 families. The hosts include: peanut, cabbage, pepper, chickpea, soybean, sunflower, sweet potato, alfalfa, sesame, potato, sorghum, wheat, and corn, among others. The identification of isolates of M. phaseolina is usually based on morphology and efforts to divide the pathogen into subspecies, but because there are wide intraspecific variations in the phenotype of the isolates, these criteria are often not reliable. The failure to correctly detect and identify M. phaseolina using conventional culture-based morphological techniques has led scientists to develop nucleic acid-based molecular approaches, such as highly sensitive and specific polymerase chain reaction-based methods. Researchers have also recently created species-specific oligonucleotide primers and digoxigenin-labeled probes in hopes of better identifying and detecting M. phaseolina.The pathogen M. phaseolina affects the fibrovascular system of the roots and basal internodes of its host, impeding the transport of water and nutrients to the upper parts of the plant. As a result, progressive wilting, premature dying, loss of vigor, and reduced yield are characteristic symptoms of M. phaseolina infection. The fungus also causes many diseases like damping off, seedling blight, collar rot, stem rot, charcoal rot, basal stem rot, and root rot. Although brown lesions may form on the hypocotyls or emerging seedlings, many symptoms occur during or after flowering, including grey discoloration of the stem and taproots, shredding of plant tissue in the stem and top of the taproot, and hollowing of the stem. Small black dots may form beneath the epidermis of the lower stem and in the taproot, giving the stems and roots a charcoal-sprinkled appearance. When the epidermis is removed, small and black microsclerotia (a sign of the disease) may be so numerous that they give a greyish-black tint to the plant tissue. In addition, reddish-brown discoloration and black streaks can form in the pith and vascular tissues of the root and stem.	 common bean Macrophomina phaseolina

Plants affected by M. incognita present above ground symptoms of water- and nutrient-stress, yellowing, wilting, and stunting. Below ground galling on roots, bulbs, tubers is the typical symptom. Plant death may occur in high infestation level.	 common bean Meloidogyne incognita

Because there are so many different hosts for this pathogen, the symptoms are very variable. Common symptoms include abnormal leaf color, abnormal leaf form, wilting leaves, galls, swollen roots, reduced root system, dwarfing and senescence (Cabi 2018). This pathogen does the most damage when present in light soils with hot weather conditions (Alford 2012).	 common bean Meloidogyne javanica

Common beans in moderate temperature regions are victims of halo blights. Main hosts are lima beans, red kidney bean, cranberry yellow eye field beans, snap beans, scarlet runner, kudzu vine and common P.vulgaris. Halo blight is affected by environment factors and enter through plant injuries or natural openings. The development of the Halo blight is highly favored by cool temperature (such as 20–23 °C), unlike other common bacterial blights. In warm temperatures (over 24 °C), the production of phaseolotoxin decreases and symptoms become less obvious. Phaseolotoxin is a toxin produced by Halo blight pathogen which causes systemic chlorosis.Halo blight causes small water-soaked spots on leaves. These spot progressively turn dark brown and are surrounded by a wide greenish yellow halo. The necrotic spots remain small unlike that of common blight.Similar to foliage symptoms, halo blights causes water-soaked spots on vegetative pods. It also causes streaks along pod sutures. If lesions becomes severe on the pods, it may penetrate the pod walls or expand into the pod sutures which causes the seed to be wrinkled and discolored (yellow patches on the seed coat).Systemic infections are not common, but occur more favorably in some dry bean varieties. If the disease develops a systemic infection, it will cause curling, yellowing and death of young leaflets.	 common bean Pseudomonas syringae pv. phaseolicola

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 common bean Rhizoctonia solani

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 common bean Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 common bean Thanatephorus cucumeris

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 cotton Alternaria alternata

The bacteria can affect the cotton plant during all growth stages, infecting stems, leaves, bracts and bolls. It causes seedling blight, leaf spot, blackarm (on stem and petioles), black vein and boll rot. On cotyledons small, green, water-soaked rounded (or irregular) spots form which turn brown. Cotyledons can be distorted if the infection is intense. Black and elongated lesions can girdle the hypocotyls and kill seedlings. On the leaves, scattered small dark-green, water-soaked, areolate spots, form measuring 1–2 mm on the lower surface, which appear translucent against transmitted light. The spots increase in diameter to 5 mm, become angular (due to leaf veination), brown and later turn dark brown to blackish, becoming visible on the upper surface. On susceptible cultivars numerous spots can occur, causing chlorosis, necrosis and distortion, and eventually defoliation. the black arm symptom is characterized by dark brown to black lesions which may coalesce and the extended necrosis then girdles the stem with blockage of the vascular system at infected sites which hinder the movement of water and nutrients though the plant system. Drooping of leaves is associated with this hindrance of water and nutrient movement. Cracking of the stem and gummosis is also observed in infected plants. The resultant breaking of the stem which hang typically as a dry black twig is referred to as the ‘black arm’. The pathogen also reportedly causes blackening of the veins and veinlets, giving a typical ‘blighting’ appearance.	 cotton Bacterial blight of cotton

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 cotton Botryosphaeria rhodina

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 cotton Diplodia gossypina

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 cotton Lasiodiplodia theobromae

L. taurica is the pathogen responsible for powdery mildew on onions, but it can also infect peppers, tomatoes, eggplant, cotton, and garlic. While L. taurica can infect many different plants it is actually very host specific. Different races of L. taurica can only infect certain crops, and even specific cultivars within the same crop. An accurate way to describe its host specificity is that this disease is, “a composite species consisting of many host-specific races." Symptoms of Onion Powdery Mildew (OPM) are usually seen as circular or oblong lesions that are 5 to 20 mm and have a chlorotic or necrotic appearance. The lesions appear on older leaves before the bulb of the onion begins to form, but also can occur on the younger leaves towards the end of the season. As the disease progresses signs of OPM can also be seen. On the lesions white mycelium can be found with conidiophores bearing either lanceolate or rounded condia.	 cotton Leveillula taurica

One of the most harmful seed and soil borne pathogens, Macrophomina phaseolina is a fungus that infects nearly 500 plant species in more than 100 families. The hosts include: peanut, cabbage, pepper, chickpea, soybean, sunflower, sweet potato, alfalfa, sesame, potato, sorghum, wheat, and corn, among others. The identification of isolates of M. phaseolina is usually based on morphology and efforts to divide the pathogen into subspecies, but because there are wide intraspecific variations in the phenotype of the isolates, these criteria are often not reliable. The failure to correctly detect and identify M. phaseolina using conventional culture-based morphological techniques has led scientists to develop nucleic acid-based molecular approaches, such as highly sensitive and specific polymerase chain reaction-based methods. Researchers have also recently created species-specific oligonucleotide primers and digoxigenin-labeled probes in hopes of better identifying and detecting M. phaseolina.The pathogen M. phaseolina affects the fibrovascular system of the roots and basal internodes of its host, impeding the transport of water and nutrients to the upper parts of the plant. As a result, progressive wilting, premature dying, loss of vigor, and reduced yield are characteristic symptoms of M. phaseolina infection. The fungus also causes many diseases like damping off, seedling blight, collar rot, stem rot, charcoal rot, basal stem rot, and root rot. Although brown lesions may form on the hypocotyls or emerging seedlings, many symptoms occur during or after flowering, including grey discoloration of the stem and taproots, shredding of plant tissue in the stem and top of the taproot, and hollowing of the stem. Small black dots may form beneath the epidermis of the lower stem and in the taproot, giving the stems and roots a charcoal-sprinkled appearance. When the epidermis is removed, small and black microsclerotia (a sign of the disease) may be so numerous that they give a greyish-black tint to the plant tissue. In addition, reddish-brown discoloration and black streaks can form in the pith and vascular tissues of the root and stem.	 cotton Macrophomina phaseolina

Plants affected by M. incognita present above ground symptoms of water- and nutrient-stress, yellowing, wilting, and stunting. Below ground galling on roots, bulbs, tubers is the typical symptom. Plant death may occur in high infestation level.	 cotton Meloidogyne incognita

L. taurica is the pathogen responsible for powdery mildew on onions, but it can also infect peppers, tomatoes, eggplant, cotton, and garlic. While L. taurica can infect many different plants it is actually very host specific. Different races of L. taurica can only infect certain crops, and even specific cultivars within the same crop. An accurate way to describe its host specificity is that this disease is, “a composite species consisting of many host-specific races." Symptoms of Onion Powdery Mildew (OPM) are usually seen as circular or oblong lesions that are 5 to 20 mm and have a chlorotic or necrotic appearance. The lesions appear on older leaves before the bulb of the onion begins to form, but also can occur on the younger leaves towards the end of the season. As the disease progresses signs of OPM can also be seen. On the lesions white mycelium can be found with conidiophores bearing either lanceolate or rounded condia.	 cotton Oidiopsis sicula

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 cotton Phymatotrichopsis omnivora

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 cotton Phymatotrichum omnivorum

For Puccinia schedonnardii the host range is specific to cotton, but is not specific to a certain cotton species. Alternate hosts are necessary to complete the life cycle, and include many types of gramma grasses.  Symptomology is similar to that of other rust species. First appearing as small yellow pustules on leaves, bolls, and stems, the spots will then transform into larger, orange/red pustules which release aeciospores. Rust lesions can cause leaves or stems to become weak and break or fall off, resulting in decreased photosynthetic ability and extreme difficulty during harvest. Symptoms on the alternate host grasses are small ovular red/brown (rust colored) powdery lesions, which release uredospores.	 cotton Puccinia schedonnardii

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 cotton Rhizoctonia solani

Stigmatomycosis is characterized by a wet, smelly, rancid, slimy kernel. Kernels with stigmatomycosis can be 1) small, dark green and partially developed with a brown funiculus, 2) well-developed, dark green and rancid, or 3) full-sized but abnormal, being white or light yellow and jelly-like, with a lobed appearance. In contrast, symptoms of kernel necrosis, which is caused by large hemipterans, are dry, punky, brown areas in the kernel. Sometimes, kernel necrosis and stigmatomycosis symptoms can be present in the same fruit.	 cotton Stigmatomycosis

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 cotton Thanatephorus cucumeris

There are many strains of Verticillium dahliae which are categorized into vegetative compatibility groups (VCG). These groups comprise strains that are able to exchange genetic material via anastomosis. Each VCG affects a few or only one host and the virulence of the pathogen varies by host. While individual V. dahliae strains are relatively host specific, as a species it has a wide range.Verticillium dahliae has a very wide host range, affecting over 300 plant species. Some susceptible crops include Brussels sprouts, cabbage, eggplant, cucumbers, mint, pepper, potatoes, pumpkin, spinach, tomato, watermelon, honeydew, and cantaloupe. Of these, tomato, potato, and eggplant have resistant or tolerant varieties.Symptoms of this disease are seen throughout the plant. Leaves may have abnormal coloration, necrotic areas, wilt, and/or fall off the plant. The stem may have discolored vascular tissue, exhibit rosetting (shortened internodes of the plant caused by reduced growth, resulting in a rosette-like appearance), and/or be stunted. Early senescence and dieback may also occur.Microsclerotia can be seen under a lens as small black structures in the vasculature of living and dead plants. This feature can be used to distinguish V. dahliae from V. albo-atrum, the other verticillium wilt pathogen.	 cotton Verticillium dahliae

The bacteria can affect the cotton plant during all growth stages, infecting stems, leaves, bracts and bolls. It causes seedling blight, leaf spot, blackarm (on stem and petioles), black vein and boll rot. On cotyledons small, green, water-soaked rounded (or irregular) spots form which turn brown. Cotyledons can be distorted if the infection is intense. Black and elongated lesions can girdle the hypocotyls and kill seedlings. On the leaves, scattered small dark-green, water-soaked, areolate spots, form measuring 1–2 mm on the lower surface, which appear translucent against transmitted light. The spots increase in diameter to 5 mm, become angular (due to leaf veination), brown and later turn dark brown to blackish, becoming visible on the upper surface. On susceptible cultivars numerous spots can occur, causing chlorosis, necrosis and distortion, and eventually defoliation. the black arm symptom is characterized by dark brown to black lesions which may coalesce and the extended necrosis then girdles the stem with blockage of the vascular system at infected sites which hinder the movement of water and nutrients though the plant system. Drooping of leaves is associated with this hindrance of water and nutrient movement. Cracking of the stem and gummosis is also observed in infected plants. The resultant breaking of the stem which hang typically as a dry black twig is referred to as the ‘black arm’. The pathogen also reportedly causes blackening of the veins and veinlets, giving a typical ‘blighting’ appearance.	 cotton Xanthomonas citri subsp. malvacearum

White rust can infect plants both locally and systemically. On stems, leaves, and inflorescences it appears as a mass of white or cream-coloured pustules, each about 2 mm (0.08 in) in diameter, packed with sporangia. New pustules are borne in radial fashion, while older pustules coalesce to form a bigger pustules in the center. The systemic version causes distortion, abnormal growth forms, and sterile inflorescences. The abnormal growth forms are sometimes known as "stagheads". Infection with white rust predisposes a crop to develop downy mildew, caused by another oomycete plant pathogen Phytophthora nicotianae.	 crucifer Albugo candida

An infection from Mycosphaerella brassicicola typically presents itself on older leaves, though can be seen on younger foliage with more severe infections. Although infection is most noted on the leaves of the host, spores are technically able to cause disease on any above ground portion of the plant. Lesions tend to appear around 10–14 days following fungal infection. The ring lesions produced by ascospore infection will terminate at the veins of leaves, at times restricting the characteristic circular nature of the signs of Mycosphaerella brassicicola. The ring symptoms may be green-brown or grey-black in color then will progress until grey when dry, turning black when wet. The outer edge typically form a ring of chlorosis around the necrotic tissue within the lesion. The rings originate as 3-5mm diameter spots that can potentially grow up to 2–3 cm. If the infection spreads far enough it may lead to premature defoliation of the host.	 crucifer Asteromella brassicae

There are a variety of hosts including but not limited to; banana, beans, cabbage, carrot, cassava, coffee, corn, cotton, onion, other crucifers, pepper, potato, sweet potato and tomato. Pandanus conoideus and karuka (Pandanus julianettii) get bacterial soft rot and necrosis on the leaves from Pectobacterium carotovorum subsp. carotovorum. For each host there are different symptoms displayed. Most symptoms are along the lines of watery and soft decay of the tissue. Cabbage and crucifers' symptoms start where the tissue makes contact with the soil. Often there is a change in color and in the case of a carrot, the whole taproot can be decayed leaving just the epidermis. Sweet potatoes show clear lesions that grow rapidly leaving a recognizable watery and soft, oozy tissue where only the peel remains intact.Potatoes experience a cream to tan colored tuber that becomes very soft and watery. A characteristic black border separates the diseased area and the healthy tissue. Only when the secondary organism invades the infected tissue does that decay become slimy with a foul odor. Like the carrot, the whole tuber can be consumed leaving just the epidermis in the soil. The foliage becomes weak and chlorotic with upward turned leaves and lesions on the stem. The stem also rots and becomes mushy with its colorless or brown lesions.	 crucifer Bacterial soft rot

Cabbage Clubroot affects cabbage, Chinese cabbage, and Brussels sprouts most severely, but it has a range of hosts that it affects less severely like kohlrabi, kale, cauliflower, collards, broccoli, rutabaga, sea kale, turnips, and radishes.Developing plants may not show any symptoms but as the plants get older they will start to show symptoms of chlorosis or yellowing, wilting during hot days, and exhibit stunted growth.  Below ground, the roots experience cell proliferation due to increased auxin or growth hormone production from the plant as well as the pathogen. This causes the formation of galls that can grow big enough to restrict the xylem tissue inhibiting efficient water uptake by the plant. Galls appear like clubs or spindles on the roots. Eventually the roots will rot and the plant will die.	 crucifer Clubroot

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 crucifer Cotton root rot

There are various symptoms associated with damping off; these reflect the variety of different pathogenic organisms which can cause the condition. However, all symptoms result in the death of at least some seedlings in any given population.Groups of seedlings may die in roughly circular patches, the seedlings sometimes having stem lesions at ground level. Stems of seedlings may also become thin and tough ("wire-stem") resulting in reduced seedling vigor. Leaf spotting sometimes accompanies other symptoms, as does a grey mold growth on stems and leaves. Roots sometimes rot completely or back to just discolored stumps.	 crucifer Damping-off

Initial symptoms include large, angular or blocky, yellow areas visible on the upper surface. As lesions mature, they expand rapidly and turn brown. The under surface of infected leaves appears watersoaked. Upon closer inspection, a purple-brown mold (see arrow) becomes apparent. Small spores shaped like footballs can be observed among the mold with a 10x hand lens. In disease-favorable conditions (cool nights with long dew periods), downy mildew will spread rapidly, destroying leaf tissue without affecting stems or petioles.	 crucifer Downy mildew

Symptoms appear as dirty white, circular, floury patches on either sides of the leaves.Under favourable environmental conditions, entire leaves, stems, floral parts and pods are affected.The whole leaf may be covered with powdery mass.If persistent, mild chlorosis or necrosis can also occur.	 crucifer Erysiphe polygoni

Leptosphaeria maculans causes phoma stem canker or blackleg. Symptoms generally include basal stem cankers, small grey oval lesions on the leaf tissue and root rot (as the fungus can directly penetrate roots). L. maculans infects a wide variety of Brassica crops including cabbage (Brassica oleracea) and oilseed rape (Brassica napus). L. maculans is especially virulent on Brassica napus. The first dramatic epidemic of L. maculans occurred in Wisconsin on cabbage. The disease is diagnosed by the presence of small black pycnidia which occur on the edge of the leaf lesions. The presence of these pycnidia allow for this disease to be distinguished from Alternaria brassicae, another foliar pathogen with similar lesions, but no pycnidia.	 crucifer Leptosphaeria maculans

An infection from Mycosphaerella brassicicola typically presents itself on older leaves, though can be seen on younger foliage with more severe infections. Although infection is most noted on the leaves of the host, spores are technically able to cause disease on any above ground portion of the plant. Lesions tend to appear around 10–14 days following fungal infection. The ring lesions produced by ascospore infection will terminate at the veins of leaves, at times restricting the characteristic circular nature of the signs of Mycosphaerella brassicicola. The ring symptoms may be green-brown or grey-black in color then will progress until grey when dry, turning black when wet. The outer edge typically form a ring of chlorosis around the necrotic tissue within the lesion. The rings originate as 3-5mm diameter spots that can potentially grow up to 2–3 cm. If the infection spreads far enough it may lead to premature defoliation of the host.	 crucifer Mycosphaerella brassicicola

The infection first appears as conidiophores covering the upper and lower leaf surfaces. Other symptoms include lesions on spikelet, fungal growth on leaves, and necrosis on stems and leaves. Hyaloperonospora Parasitica has a very wide host range. It can infect garlic mustard, horseradish, cruciferous vegetables, Shepherd's purse, Cheiranthus spp., Cucurbits, purple vein rocket, treacle mustard, wallflower, spurges, candytuft, mustard plants, radish, and sweet alyssum.  Although it is not significantly damaging on any one specific plant, the damage of H. parasitica can cause major economic losses if not managed properly. The recommendation for management is weekly fungicide application.	 crucifer Peronospora parasitica

Leptosphaeria maculans causes phoma stem canker or blackleg. Symptoms generally include basal stem cankers, small grey oval lesions on the leaf tissue and root rot (as the fungus can directly penetrate roots). L. maculans infects a wide variety of Brassica crops including cabbage (Brassica oleracea) and oilseed rape (Brassica napus). L. maculans is especially virulent on Brassica napus. The first dramatic epidemic of L. maculans occurred in Wisconsin on cabbage. The disease is diagnosed by the presence of small black pycnidia which occur on the edge of the leaf lesions. The presence of these pycnidia allow for this disease to be distinguished from Alternaria brassicae, another foliar pathogen with similar lesions, but no pycnidia.	 crucifer Phoma lingam

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 crucifer Phymatotrichopsis omnivora

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 crucifer Phymatotrichum omnivorum

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 crucifer Rhizoctonia solani

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 crucifer Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 crucifer Thanatephorus cucumeris

There are many strains of Verticillium dahliae which are categorized into vegetative compatibility groups (VCG). These groups comprise strains that are able to exchange genetic material via anastomosis. Each VCG affects a few or only one host and the virulence of the pathogen varies by host. While individual V. dahliae strains are relatively host specific, as a species it has a wide range.Verticillium dahliae has a very wide host range, affecting over 300 plant species. Some susceptible crops include Brussels sprouts, cabbage, eggplant, cucumbers, mint, pepper, potatoes, pumpkin, spinach, tomato, watermelon, honeydew, and cantaloupe. Of these, tomato, potato, and eggplant have resistant or tolerant varieties.Symptoms of this disease are seen throughout the plant. Leaves may have abnormal coloration, necrotic areas, wilt, and/or fall off the plant. The stem may have discolored vascular tissue, exhibit rosetting (shortened internodes of the plant caused by reduced growth, resulting in a rosette-like appearance), and/or be stunted. Early senescence and dieback may also occur.Microsclerotia can be seen under a lens as small black structures in the vasculature of living and dead plants. This feature can be used to distinguish V. dahliae from V. albo-atrum, the other verticillium wilt pathogen.	 crucifer Verticillium dahliae

Verticillium spp. attack a very large host range including more than 350 species of vegetables, fruit trees, flowers, field crops, and shade or forest trees.  Most vegetable species have some susceptibility, so it has a very wide host range.  A list of known hosts is at the bottom of this page.The signs are similar to most wilts with a few specifics to Verticillium.  Wilt itself is the most common sign, with wilting of the stem and leaves occurring due to the blockage of the xylem vascular tissues and therefore reduced water and nutrient flow.  In small plants and seedlings, Verticillium can quickly kill the plant while in larger, more developed plants the severity can vary.  Some times only one side of the plant will appear infected because once in the vascular tissues, the disease migrates mostly upward and not as much radially in the stem.  Other symptoms include stunting, chlorosis or yellowing of the leaves, necrosis or tissue death, and defoliation.  Internal vascular tissue discoloration might be visible when the stem is cut.In Verticillium, the signs and effects will often only be on the lower or outer parts of plants or will be localized to only a few branches of a tree.  In older plants, the infection can cause death, but often, especially with trees, the plant will be able to recover, or at least continue living with the infection.  The severity of the infection plays a large role in how severe the signs are and how quickly they develop.	 crucifer Verticillium wilt

There are a variety of hosts including but not limited to; banana, beans, cabbage, carrot, cassava, coffee, corn, cotton, onion, other crucifers, pepper, potato, sweet potato and tomato. Pandanus conoideus and karuka (Pandanus julianettii) get bacterial soft rot and necrosis on the leaves from Pectobacterium carotovorum subsp. carotovorum. For each host there are different symptoms displayed. Most symptoms are along the lines of watery and soft decay of the tissue. Cabbage and crucifers' symptoms start where the tissue makes contact with the soil. Often there is a change in color and in the case of a carrot, the whole taproot can be decayed leaving just the epidermis. Sweet potatoes show clear lesions that grow rapidly leaving a recognizable watery and soft, oozy tissue where only the peel remains intact.Potatoes experience a cream to tan colored tuber that becomes very soft and watery. A characteristic black border separates the diseased area and the healthy tissue. Only when the secondary organism invades the infected tissue does that decay become slimy with a foul odor. Like the carrot, the whole tuber can be consumed leaving just the epidermis in the soil. The foliage becomes weak and chlorotic with upward turned leaves and lesions on the stem. The stem also rots and becomes mushy with its colorless or brown lesions.	 cucurbit Bacterial soft rot

Gray-green to black circular leaf spotsAngular/target-like water-soaked lesionsStem lesions/cankersVine lesionsVine NecrosisReddish gummy ooze exuding from the lesions/woundsWiltDefoliationThe first symptoms appear as grayish green, circular spots between the veins of the leaf lobes. With age these spots darken to brown and black. Lesions begin to develop on vines at the vine nodes and then elongate into water-soaked streaks, and these streaks are pale brown at first but turn gray with time. The petioles and stems eventually become necrotic and often shrivel. Eventually all infected vines will become necrotic and occasionally the plant dies due to wilting and defoliation. Another common sign following the stem lesions is a red to amber colored ooze. Some regions report the presence of small pseudothecia as black specks inside the cankers.Gummy stem blight can be confused with anthracnose, which is caused by a fungal plant pathogen called Colletotrichum lagenarium. To distinguish between anthracnose and gummy stem blight, gummy stem blight leaf lesions are darker, target-like and less deteriorated than anthracnose lesions. Newly infected plants will begin to show symptoms within 7–12 days.	 cucurbit Cercospora citrullina

Gray-green to black circular leaf spotsAngular/target-like water-soaked lesionsStem lesions/cankersVine lesionsVine NecrosisReddish gummy ooze exuding from the lesions/woundsWiltDefoliationThe first symptoms appear as grayish green, circular spots between the veins of the leaf lobes. With age these spots darken to brown and black. Lesions begin to develop on vines at the vine nodes and then elongate into water-soaked streaks, and these streaks are pale brown at first but turn gray with time. The petioles and stems eventually become necrotic and often shrivel. Eventually all infected vines will become necrotic and occasionally the plant dies due to wilting and defoliation. Another common sign following the stem lesions is a red to amber colored ooze. Some regions report the presence of small pseudothecia as black specks inside the cankers.Gummy stem blight can be confused with anthracnose, which is caused by a fungal plant pathogen called Colletotrichum lagenarium. To distinguish between anthracnose and gummy stem blight, gummy stem blight leaf lesions are darker, target-like and less deteriorated than anthracnose lesions. Newly infected plants will begin to show symptoms within 7–12 days.	 cucurbit Didymella bryoniae

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 cucurbit Diplodia natalensis

The pathogen is capable of causing a variety of diseases: head blight or 'scab' on wheat (Triticum), barley (Hordeum), rice (Oryza), oats (Avena), and Gibberella stalk and ear rot disease on maize (Zea). Additionally, the fungus may infect other plant species without causing any disease symptoms.MaizeIn Gibberella stalk rot, the leaves on early-infected plants will turn a dull greyish-green, and the lower internodes will soften and turn a tan to dark-brown. A pink-red discoloration occurs within the stalks of diseased tissue. Shredding of the pith may reveal small, round, black perithecia on the stalks. Gibberella (red) ear rot can have a reddish mold that is often at the ear tip. The infection occurs by colonizing corn silk and symptoms first occur at the ear's apex. The white mycelium turns from pink to red over time, eventually covering the entire ear. Ears that become infected early don't fully develop the reddish mold near the ear tip, as the mold grows between the husks and ear.RiceGibberella zeae can turn affected seeds red and cause brown discoloration in certain areas on the seed or the entire seed surface. The surface of husks develop white spots that later become yellow and salmon or carmine. Infected grains are light, shrunken and brittle. Stem nodes begin to rot and wilt, eventually causing them to turn black and disintegrate when they are infected by the fungal pathogen.WheatBrown, dark purple-black necrotic lesions will form on the outer surface of the spikelets, what the wheat ear breaks up into. The lesions may be referred to as scabs, but this is not to be confused and associated with other scab diseases such as those with different host and pathogen. Head blight is visible before the spikes mature. Spikelets begin to appear water-soaked before the loss of chlorophyll, which gives a white straw color. Peduncles that are directly under the inflorescence can become discolored into a brown-purple color. Tissues of the inflorescence typically become blighted into a bleached tan appearance, and the grain within it atrophies. The awn will become deformed, twisted and curve in a downward direction.BarleyInfections on barley are not always visible in the field. Similar to wheat, infected spikelets show a browning or water-soaked appearance. The infected kernels display a tan to dark brown discoloration. During long periods of wetness, pink to salmon-orange spore masses can be seen on the infected spikelets and kernels. The cortical lesions of infected seeds become a reddish-brown in cool, moist soil. Warm soil can cause head blight to occur after emergence, and crown and basal culm rot can be observed in later plant development.	 cucurbit Fusarium graminearum

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 cucurbit Fusarium solani

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 cucurbit Fusarium solani f. sp. cucurbitae

The pathogen is capable of causing a variety of diseases: head blight or 'scab' on wheat (Triticum), barley (Hordeum), rice (Oryza), oats (Avena), and Gibberella stalk and ear rot disease on maize (Zea). Additionally, the fungus may infect other plant species without causing any disease symptoms.MaizeIn Gibberella stalk rot, the leaves on early-infected plants will turn a dull greyish-green, and the lower internodes will soften and turn a tan to dark-brown. A pink-red discoloration occurs within the stalks of diseased tissue. Shredding of the pith may reveal small, round, black perithecia on the stalks. Gibberella (red) ear rot can have a reddish mold that is often at the ear tip. The infection occurs by colonizing corn silk and symptoms first occur at the ear's apex. The white mycelium turns from pink to red over time, eventually covering the entire ear. Ears that become infected early don't fully develop the reddish mold near the ear tip, as the mold grows between the husks and ear.RiceGibberella zeae can turn affected seeds red and cause brown discoloration in certain areas on the seed or the entire seed surface. The surface of husks develop white spots that later become yellow and salmon or carmine. Infected grains are light, shrunken and brittle. Stem nodes begin to rot and wilt, eventually causing them to turn black and disintegrate when they are infected by the fungal pathogen.WheatBrown, dark purple-black necrotic lesions will form on the outer surface of the spikelets, what the wheat ear breaks up into. The lesions may be referred to as scabs, but this is not to be confused and associated with other scab diseases such as those with different host and pathogen. Head blight is visible before the spikes mature. Spikelets begin to appear water-soaked before the loss of chlorophyll, which gives a white straw color. Peduncles that are directly under the inflorescence can become discolored into a brown-purple color. Tissues of the inflorescence typically become blighted into a bleached tan appearance, and the grain within it atrophies. The awn will become deformed, twisted and curve in a downward direction.BarleyInfections on barley are not always visible in the field. Similar to wheat, infected spikelets show a browning or water-soaked appearance. The infected kernels display a tan to dark brown discoloration. During long periods of wetness, pink to salmon-orange spore masses can be seen on the infected spikelets and kernels. The cortical lesions of infected seeds become a reddish-brown in cool, moist soil. Warm soil can cause head blight to occur after emergence, and crown and basal culm rot can be observed in later plant development.	 cucurbit Gibberella zeae

Gummy stem blight affects many cucurbits including watermelon, cantaloupe, cucumber, pumpkin, and some squash. Some symptoms are common of all gummy stem blight infections while other symptoms can vary depending on the specific host the pathogen has infected. Hosts can become infected at any time in their life. When the pathogen is present in a young seedling, the cotyledons will sprout appearing dark and drenched. When older plants become infected, their leaves may appear water soaked and begin to develop dark tan lesions. The leaves begin to turn brown at the margins and necrosis progresses towards the base of the leaf.Cankers, which may or may not have black spots, may appear in the epidermal cortical tissue and on the stems of infected plants. Black spots, if visible, are pycnidia and/or perithecia. Black rot is a common symptom on the fruit of gummy stem blight infected cucurbits. Lesions formed on the fruit; start as water soaked spots that expand and exude gummy ooze. As the spots grow they develop fruiting bodies which turn the spots black. Fruit can also rot internally, with the only symptoms being shriveling and discoloration of centrally located tissue. Fruit rot can occur while in the field or after fruit has been harvested.D. bryoniae produces signs of infection such as white aerial mycelium, olive-green substrate mycelium and pycnidia. P. cucurbitacearum produces sparse serial mycelium and many pycnidia are present. Young leaves and cotelydons of melon and watermelon that are immature are at high risk to the gummy stem blight infection whereas cucumber and some squash are resistant at young age and only become susceptible once they have matured.	 cucurbit Gummy stem blight

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 cucurbit Haematonectria haematococca

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 cucurbit Lasiodiplodia theobromae

One of the most harmful seed and soil borne pathogens, Macrophomina phaseolina is a fungus that infects nearly 500 plant species in more than 100 families. The hosts include: peanut, cabbage, pepper, chickpea, soybean, sunflower, sweet potato, alfalfa, sesame, potato, sorghum, wheat, and corn, among others. The identification of isolates of M. phaseolina is usually based on morphology and efforts to divide the pathogen into subspecies, but because there are wide intraspecific variations in the phenotype of the isolates, these criteria are often not reliable. The failure to correctly detect and identify M. phaseolina using conventional culture-based morphological techniques has led scientists to develop nucleic acid-based molecular approaches, such as highly sensitive and specific polymerase chain reaction-based methods. Researchers have also recently created species-specific oligonucleotide primers and digoxigenin-labeled probes in hopes of better identifying and detecting M. phaseolina.The pathogen M. phaseolina affects the fibrovascular system of the roots and basal internodes of its host, impeding the transport of water and nutrients to the upper parts of the plant. As a result, progressive wilting, premature dying, loss of vigor, and reduced yield are characteristic symptoms of M. phaseolina infection. The fungus also causes many diseases like damping off, seedling blight, collar rot, stem rot, charcoal rot, basal stem rot, and root rot. Although brown lesions may form on the hypocotyls or emerging seedlings, many symptoms occur during or after flowering, including grey discoloration of the stem and taproots, shredding of plant tissue in the stem and top of the taproot, and hollowing of the stem. Small black dots may form beneath the epidermis of the lower stem and in the taproot, giving the stems and roots a charcoal-sprinkled appearance. When the epidermis is removed, small and black microsclerotia (a sign of the disease) may be so numerous that they give a greyish-black tint to the plant tissue. In addition, reddish-brown discoloration and black streaks can form in the pith and vascular tissues of the root and stem.	 cucurbit Macrophomina phaseolina

Gray-green to black circular leaf spotsAngular/target-like water-soaked lesionsStem lesions/cankersVine lesionsVine NecrosisReddish gummy ooze exuding from the lesions/woundsWiltDefoliationThe first symptoms appear as grayish green, circular spots between the veins of the leaf lobes. With age these spots darken to brown and black. Lesions begin to develop on vines at the vine nodes and then elongate into water-soaked streaks, and these streaks are pale brown at first but turn gray with time. The petioles and stems eventually become necrotic and often shrivel. Eventually all infected vines will become necrotic and occasionally the plant dies due to wilting and defoliation. Another common sign following the stem lesions is a red to amber colored ooze. Some regions report the presence of small pseudothecia as black specks inside the cankers.Gummy stem blight can be confused with anthracnose, which is caused by a fungal plant pathogen called Colletotrichum lagenarium. To distinguish between anthracnose and gummy stem blight, gummy stem blight leaf lesions are darker, target-like and less deteriorated than anthracnose lesions. Newly infected plants will begin to show symptoms within 7–12 days.	 cucurbit Mycosphaerella melonis

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 cucurbit Nectria haematococca

Root lesion nematodes infect a great variety of hosts. Pratylenchus penetrans alone has over 350 host plants. They include agricultural crops such as soybeans, potatoes, corn, bananas, and wheat. The genus is found most often in corn. Signs of disease are similar in most plants and generally include necrotic lesions of the roots. The lesions can also be entrances for pathogenic bacteria and fungi, which produce secondary infections. Above ground the plant becomes stunted, chlorotic, and wilted, and it often dies. A crop field may be patchy as plants wither and die. Root lesion nematodes can cause significant yield losses.	 cucurbit Pratylenchus

The pathogen causes angular chlorotic lesions on the foliage.  These lesions appear angular because they are bound by leaf veins.  During humid conditions, inspection of the underside of the leaf reveals gray-brown to purplish-black fungal growth.  This downy material is the sporulation of the pathogen. Magnification of the sporulation reveals the acutely and dichotomously branched sporangiophores bearing lemon-shaped sporangia. Eventually, leaves will turn necrotic and curl upwards.  The disease is sometimes called wildfire because of how rapidly it progresses, as if the crop were burned by fire. Symptoms on watermelon and cantaloupe are different from on other cucurbits; leaf spots are typically not angular and turn brown to black in color.  Often, an exaggerated upward leaf-curling will occur. Regardless of which cucurbit is involved, only the leaves are infected, not fruit, flowers, stems or roots.  Disease of the leaves results in three major effects: 1. reduced yields, 2. a greater proportion of misshapen fruit, especially in cucumber, and 3. sunscalded fruit, due to increased exposure to direct sunlight, especially in watermelon and winter squash.	 cucurbit Pseudoperonospora cubensis

Pythium aphanidermatum is responsible for pre- and post-emergence damping off.  Pre-emergence damping off is when the seed is infected prior to germination.  This can result in poor or no germination, and is observable as a browning or rotting of the seed.  Post-emergence damping off takes place after germination and results in a thinning, water-soaked stem near the plant collar, which eventually causes the collapse of the plant.  P. aphanidermatum can also cause root rot.  Symptoms of root rot include stunted growth, chlorotic leaves, leaf drop, and wilting.  The infection begins at the root tip, and can cause the infected region to lose its protective outer layer, exposing the inner root to other pathogens	 cucurbit Pythium aphanidermatum

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 cucurbit Rhizoctonia solani

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 cucurbit Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

Powdery mildew is manifest on the plant by white powdery fungal growth on the surface of the leaf, usually both sides of the leaf show fungal growth. The host tissue is frequently stunted, distorted, discolored, and scarred. The fruit of infected plants are usually smaller and the flavor is affected negatively, as fewer sugars and solids are stored in the fruit.	 cucurbit Sphaerotheca fuliginea

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 cucurbit Thanatephorus cucumeris

There are many strains of Verticillium dahliae which are categorized into vegetative compatibility groups (VCG). These groups comprise strains that are able to exchange genetic material via anastomosis. Each VCG affects a few or only one host and the virulence of the pathogen varies by host. While individual V. dahliae strains are relatively host specific, as a species it has a wide range.Verticillium dahliae has a very wide host range, affecting over 300 plant species. Some susceptible crops include Brussels sprouts, cabbage, eggplant, cucumbers, mint, pepper, potatoes, pumpkin, spinach, tomato, watermelon, honeydew, and cantaloupe. Of these, tomato, potato, and eggplant have resistant or tolerant varieties.Symptoms of this disease are seen throughout the plant. Leaves may have abnormal coloration, necrotic areas, wilt, and/or fall off the plant. The stem may have discolored vascular tissue, exhibit rosetting (shortened internodes of the plant caused by reduced growth, resulting in a rosette-like appearance), and/or be stunted. Early senescence and dieback may also occur.Microsclerotia can be seen under a lens as small black structures in the vasculature of living and dead plants. This feature can be used to distinguish V. dahliae from V. albo-atrum, the other verticillium wilt pathogen.	 cucurbit Verticillium dahliae

The symptoms that plants exhibit in response to the pathogenicity of Xiphinema americanum are similar to those of other migratory ectoparasitic nematodes of roots. It is common to see poor growth and or stunting of the plant, yellowing or wilting of the foliage, and reduced root systems which can include root necrosis, lack of feeder or secondary roots, and occasional tufts of stubby rootlets.Young, shortleaved yellow pine trees with moderate swelling of roots with clusters of short, stubby branches were the first demonstration of X. americanum pathogenicity in 1955. X. americanum can also cause severe effects on foliage, sometimes causing chlorosis and complete defoliation as seen on Guatemalan coffee trees. The dagger nematode causes the devitalization of root tips and overall root death when they feed at the root tips and root sides of strawberry plants. Reddish-brown lesions that turn black and necrotic with time result at the sites of feeding, and result in reduced root systems and stunted tops.Xiphinema americanum is listed as a C-rated pest in California due to its wide host range of California crops. C-rated pests are widespread, and are of known economic or environmental detriment, according to The California Department of Food and Agriculture. Due to X. americanum's difficulty in maintaining high populations in frequently tilled soils (see Control), the dagger nematode is mainly an economic problem on biennial and perennial crops rather than annual crops (except for damage to emerging seedlings).	 cucurbit Xiphinema americanum

In fields, symptomatic plants are recognized in patches or rows.  They appear dwarfed, stunted, and brown in comparison to healthy plants. Local symptoms appear above ground, and plant leaves are typically distorted in shape, crinkled, and discolored with hard surfaces. They often have reduced flower size. Diseased plants typically have dead crowns and a shortened internode of the runners.A classic leaf symptom is the appearance of angular, water-soaked lesions between the veins.  The angular appearance results where the lesion edge and vein meet. In leaves with parallel venation, the length of the lesion progresses parallel to the direction of the vein.  As lesions enlarge and leaf damage progresses, symptomatic leaf edges become dry, dead, and crinkled. Because infected strawberry plants are less vigorous in growth, the stolon does not grow well, which results in reduced fruit size and number.  If the nematodes infect early in plant development, specifically when the buds are forming, the plant morphology will be dwarfed and distorted.Once the nematodes destroy most of the leaf tissue, they leave the plant through wounds and natural openings in the leaf to find a new host to infect. The pathogen is easily transmitted through direct contact between the foliage of infected and non-infected plants.  Nematodes can also move over large distances through soil transportation, as a result of human and animal movement, or through insect and bird travel.	 cyclamen Aphelenchoides fragariae

A. ritezmabosi has a wide host range of almost 200 plant species, and is an important disease in chrysanthemum and other ornamentals.  Other ornamental hosts of A. ritzemabosi are anemones, asters, carnations, Chinaster, cinerarias, coneflowers,crassulas, creeping bellflower, dahlias, delphiniums, elders, lupines, monkeyflower, phlox,pouchflower, rhododendrons, sages, Siberian wallflower, water peperomia, and zinnias.A common symptom of A. ritezmabosi is seen when the nematode is feeding in the foliar tissue.  Angular lesions are formed, which are chlorotic at first then turn necrotic as the feeding persists.  A sign that an A. ritzeambosi nematode is feeding in the bud of a plant is brown scars on the bud and surrounding tissue.  The nematode also produces secretions that have the ability to cause several other symptoms in infested plants including shortening of inter-nodes, creating a bushy appearance, browning and failure of the shoot to grow, as well as distorted leaf formation.	 cyclamen Aphelenchoides ritzemabosi

There are a variety of hosts including but not limited to; banana, beans, cabbage, carrot, cassava, coffee, corn, cotton, onion, other crucifers, pepper, potato, sweet potato and tomato. Pandanus conoideus and karuka (Pandanus julianettii) get bacterial soft rot and necrosis on the leaves from Pectobacterium carotovorum subsp. carotovorum. For each host there are different symptoms displayed. Most symptoms are along the lines of watery and soft decay of the tissue. Cabbage and crucifers' symptoms start where the tissue makes contact with the soil. Often there is a change in color and in the case of a carrot, the whole taproot can be decayed leaving just the epidermis. Sweet potatoes show clear lesions that grow rapidly leaving a recognizable watery and soft, oozy tissue where only the peel remains intact.Potatoes experience a cream to tan colored tuber that becomes very soft and watery. A characteristic black border separates the diseased area and the healthy tissue. Only when the secondary organism invades the infected tissue does that decay become slimy with a foul odor. Like the carrot, the whole tuber can be consumed leaving just the epidermis in the soil. The foliage becomes weak and chlorotic with upward turned leaves and lesions on the stem. The stem also rots and becomes mushy with its colorless or brown lesions.	 cyclamen Bacterial soft rot

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 cyclamen Colletotrichum gloeosporioides

This virus was first characterized in cucumbers (Cucumis sativus) showing mosaic symptoms in 1934, hence the name Cucumber mosaic. Since then, it has been found to infect a great variety of other plants. These include other vegetables such as squash, melons, peppers, eggplants, tomatoes, beans, carrots, celery, lettuce, spinach, beets, many ornamentals and bedding plants, such as Narcissus, and various weeds. Its presence has been confirmed on every continent of the world, including Antarctica.Symptoms seen with this virus include leaf mosaic or mottling (Fig. 1), yellowing, ringspots, stunting, and leaf, flower and fruit distortion. CMV also induces a type of symptom on leaves known as the "shoestring" effect on many host species. This effect causes young leaves to appear narrow and the entire plant to be stunted.Specifically, CMV can cause cucumbers to turn pale and bumpy. The leaves of these plants turn mosaic and their rugosity is often changed, making leaves wrinkled and misshapen. Growth of these plants is usually also stunted and produces few flowers. Often, cucumber fruits are oddly shaped, appear gray, and tested bitter. These appearances lead to them being referred to as "white pickles".Tomato plants are usually stunted and have poorly shaped leaves, or "fernleaf", when infected by CMV. Also certain strains of CMV can cause partial or total crop loss. CMV in peppers causes slightly different symptoms than the previously mentioned. Pepper plants often have severe foliar damage, shown as mosaic and necrotic rings. Often the peppers themselves are misshapen and contain chlorotic rings and spots. In celery, CMV causes streaking and spotting and can be often confused with symptoms of the celery mosaic virus. Symptoms of CMV in lettuce, such as chlorosis, plant stunting and often do not properly head, can be very similar to those of lettuce mosaic virus.CMV has also been identified in a lesser extent to a number of plant species. It is found to be a minor virus infecting Allium crops. The virus infection causes extensive malformation on garlic plants, and mild malformation to severe necrotic streaks on onion leaves. The severe damages on garlic plants and difficulty of aphids transmission of garlic isolate, were possible causal for the rare CMV on garlic. Genetically, the two onion isolates from Turkey (CMV-14.3Po and CMV-15.5Po) are highly similar to others isolated from various plant species in Mediterranean, European, and East Asian countries. CMV was also detected on American beautyberry, an important wildlife and pollinator food source plant native to North America.In plant tissue this virus makes characteristic viral inclusion bodies which can be diagnostic. They are hexagonal in shape (Fig. 2) and stain both in a protein stain and a nucleic acid stain. The inclusions can also be rhomboidal, may appear hollow (Fig. 2) and can form larger aggregates. The inclusions are not uniformly distributed and can be found in epidermal (Fig. 2), mesophyll, and stomatal cells. These inclusions are made up of virus particles.			 cyclamen Cucumber mosaic virus

D. dipsaci has an extensive host range. Major damage occurs in garlic, onion, carrot, fava bean, alfalfa, oats, and strawberry. Ornamental plants can also be infected including hyacinth and tulip. It is estimated that this pathogen infects 400–500 plant species worldwide.In Allium species (onions, garlic, and leeks), infected plants show characteristic symptoms including stunted growth, yellow spots, leaf curl, and foliage lesions. Stems often have swollen regions called “spikkles.” As adult nematodes migrate into the scales of the bulb, and the scales become soft, grey, and loosely packed. Highly infected bulbs can also split apart or show malformed bloating. The leaves of the plant become flaccid and may collapse. This can lead to defoliated plants. Garlic shows similar symptoms of leaf yellowing and stunted bulbs. When harvested, the infected garlic may be missing portions of the root system.In fava beans (Vicia faba), symptoms of infection include reddish-brown stem lesions that can turn black. Young bean pods are dark-brown. Infected seeds are smaller and distorted compared to healthy beans. Speckles and spots are also commonly seen on infected fava beans.Up to 30 biological races occur within D. dipsaci that are mostly distinguished by their host preferences. Very little morphological differences are seen between the races which makes diagnosis difficult. Seed material samples from infected plants can be dissected and viewed under a microscope to confirm the correct race.	 cyclamen Ditylenchus dipsaci

D. dadantii is phytopathogenic bacterium causing soft rot diseases on many host plants including some which are economically important. D. dadantii, more commonly known as: soft rot, brown rot or blackleg, causes characteristic symptoms associated with other bacterial wilts, causing final diagnosis to be difficult. The pathogen primarily seeks to attack the plant's xylem vessels located in leaves, stems, blossoms and storage organs of herbaceous plants. D. dadantii is able to infect hosts at any point in its life cycle. In addition to symptoms of wilt, the disease appears as sunken and cracked external lesions also having a brown interior in cross section in subterranean bulbs and tubers Diseased plants will display a variety of symptoms including: wilting, stunting and vascular discoloration of the stems. Early symptoms include water soaked lesions at the site of infection, gradually expanding chlorotic leaves and loss of turgor in tissues. The intensity of D. dadantii colonization relates to the amount of disease and degree of damage. The pathogen is very successful at infiltrating host tissues due to the many pectinases responsible for disassembly of plant cell wall polysaccharides. Once the cell wall is degraded cellular structure collapses and this cell maceration gives a characteristic "water-soaked" or rotted appearance. D. dadantii grow intercellularly, continuing to degrade cells and colonize, until it eventually reaches xylem tissues. Upon reaching the xylem vessels D. dadantii possesses the ability to spread to new regions of the host and other areas may begin to display symptoms. Colonization within the xylem restricts flow of water causing loss of turgor pressure and wilting of foliage and stems. Restricted movement of important plant compounds eventually lead to death of the host.	 cyclamen Erwinia chrysanthemi

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 cyclamen Glomerella cingulata

INSV has a wide host range and can be found in over 300 plant species including weeds, fruits, vegetables and ornamental crops. Of these, the most severely affected include tomatoes, lettuce, pepper and peppermint as well as most all ornamentals. Symptoms of infection include a downward curling of the leaves, leaf tip dieback, stunting, necrosis of growing leaf tips, sunken ‘chicken pox-like’ spots on leaves (often with a surrounding halo), stem death and yellowing.  Since these symptoms are so generic, extreme caution must be taken when introducing new plants to your greenhouse. Infected plants can not be cured and not all hosts display visible symptoms Western Flower Thrips are extremely hard to remove from their host plants, as they often dig themselves deep into blossoms, buds and other areas hard to reach with insecticides. So, even if plants are sprayed regularly with insecticide, INSV and other insect vectored viruses can not always be ruled out when forming diagnosis.Temperature and host both play an important factor when discussing the symptoms which an INSV infected plant will display. When New Guinea Impatiens are cultivated in an environment varying between 75 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit the host plant will be highly symptomatic. However, when New Guinea Impatiens are grown in an environment just 10 degrees cooler it is unlikely for there to be any observable symptoms of disease.	 cyclamen Impatiens necrotic spot virus

Plants affected by M. incognita present above ground symptoms of water- and nutrient-stress, yellowing, wilting, and stunting. Below ground galling on roots, bulbs, tubers is the typical symptom. Plant death may occur in high infestation level.	 cyclamen Meloidogyne incognita

Phytoplasmas can infect and cause various symptoms in more than 700 plant species. One characteristic symptom is abnormal floral organ development including phyllody (i.e., the production of leaf-like structures in place of flowers) and virescence (i.e., the development of green flowers attributable to a loss of pigment by petal cells). Phytoplasma-harboring flowering plants may nevertheless be sterile. The expression of genes involved in maintaining the apical meristem or in the development of floral organs is altered in the morphologically affected floral organs of phytoplasma-infected plants.A phytoplasma infection often triggers leaf yellowing, probably due to the presence of phytoplasma cells in phloem, which can affect phloem function and carbohydrate transport, inhibit chlorophyll biosynthesis, and trigger chlorophyll breakdown. These symptoms may be attributable to stress caused by the infection rather than a specific pathogenetic process.Many phytoplasma-infected plants develop a bushy or "witches' broom" appearance due to changes in their normal growth patterns. Most plants exhibit apical dominance but infection can trigger the proliferation of axillary (side) shoots and a reduction in internode size. Such symptoms are actually useful in the commercial production of poinsettias. Infection triggers more axillary shoot production; the poinsettia plants thus produce more than a single flower.	 cyclamen Phytoplasma

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 cyclamen Rhizoctonia solani

Like other plant pathogenic viruses, TMV has a very wide host range and has different effects depending on the host being infected. Tobacco mosaic virus has been known to cause a production loss for flue cured tobacco of up to two percent in North Carolina. It is known to infect members of nine plant families, and at least 125 individual species, including tobacco, tomato, pepper (all members of the useful Solanaceae), cucumbers, a number of ornamental flowers, and beans including Phaseolus vulgaris and Vigna unguiculata. There are many different strains. The first symptom of this virus disease is a light green coloration between the veins of young leaves. This is followed quickly by the development of a "mosaic" or mottled pattern of light and dark green areas in the leaves. Rugosity may also be seen where the infected plant leaves display small localized random wrinkles. These symptoms develop quickly and are more pronounced on younger leaves. Its infection does not result in plant death, but if infection occurs early in the season, plants are stunted. Lower leaves are subjected to "mosaic burn"  especially during periods of hot and dry weather. In these cases, large dead areas develop in the leaves. This constitutes one of the most destructive phases of Tobacco mosaic virus infection. Infected leaves may be crinkled, puckered, or elongated. However, if TMV infects crops like grape and apple, it is almost symptomless. TMV is able  to infect and complete its replication cycle in a plant pathogenic fungus,TMV is able to enter and replicate in cells of C. acutatum, C. clavatum, and C. theobromicola, which may not be an exception, although it has neither been found nor probably searched for in nature.	 cyclamen Tobacco mosaic virus

TSWV infects a variety of hosts, contributing to its global economic impact on crops. There are over a thousand different hosts for TSWV. The host range of TSWV includes agronomically important crops like tomatoes and tobacco. The symptoms of TSWV vary from host to host. There is also variability of symptoms within a single type of host due to the age of the plant, nutrition and the environment (especially temperature). Common symptoms include stunting, ringspots on fruit and necrosis of leaves. There are many different strains of TSWV, and differences in symptoms may also be attributed to the differences in the number of strains present.	 cyclamen Tomato spotted wilt virus

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 date palm Botryodiplodia theobromae

One of the most well-known diseases caused by Ceratocystis paradoxa is Black rot or stem-end rot of pineapple, but it can also infect tropical fruit plants such as banana and coconuts as well as sugarcane. The pathogen infects the fruits through wounds or other openings after harvest has already happened and the fruit is fresh.Symptoms for this disease are very obvious black lesions on the fruit, the main infection part of the plant. If the pathogen infects the plant while fruits are still on it, they will prematurely drop. Other symptoms include discoloration of leaves as well as the seeds. The lesions on the fruit evolve to become soft rot spots that produce a heinous odor. The fruit can even get to the point of breakdown.Known hosts:Ananas comosus (pineapple)AraceaeAreca catechu (betelnut palm)Borassus flabellifer (toddy palm)Butia capitataCocos nucifera (coconut)Coffea (coffee)Daucus carota (carrot)Dypsis decaryiElaeis guineensis (African oil palm)EucalyptusHowea forsteriana (paradise palm)Mangifera indica (mango)Musa x paradisiaca (plantain)Phoenix dactylifera (date-palm)Saccharum officinarum (sugarcane)Solanum muricatum (melon pear)Theobroma cacao (cocoa)Zea mays (maize)	 date palm Ceratocystis paradoxa

One of the most well-known diseases caused by Ceratocystis paradoxa is Black rot or stem-end rot of pineapple, but it can also infect tropical fruit plants such as banana and coconuts as well as sugarcane. The pathogen infects the fruits through wounds or other openings after harvest has already happened and the fruit is fresh.Symptoms for this disease are very obvious black lesions on the fruit, the main infection part of the plant. If the pathogen infects the plant while fruits are still on it, they will prematurely drop. Other symptoms include discoloration of leaves as well as the seeds. The lesions on the fruit evolve to become soft rot spots that produce a heinous odor. The fruit can even get to the point of breakdown.Known hosts:Ananas comosus (pineapple)AraceaeAreca catechu (betelnut palm)Borassus flabellifer (toddy palm)Butia capitataCocos nucifera (coconut)Coffea (coffee)Daucus carota (carrot)Dypsis decaryiElaeis guineensis (African oil palm)EucalyptusHowea forsteriana (paradise palm)Mangifera indica (mango)Musa x paradisiaca (plantain)Phoenix dactylifera (date-palm)Saccharum officinarum (sugarcane)Solanum muricatum (melon pear)Theobroma cacao (cocoa)Zea mays (maize)	 date palm Chalara paradoxa

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 date palm Diplodia natalensis

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 date palm Lasiodiplodia theobromae

These nematodes cause symptoms both on leaves and roots. Foliar symptoms of root-knot disease may be expressed at any time during the growing season. These symptoms of nematode damage on peanut plants range from stunting, yellowing, wilting and even plant death.  Ferris (1999–2012), also reported that nematodes cause yellowing; mid-day wilting; symptoms of water and nutrient stress; and sometimes death, especially if the nematode is interacting with other organisms.  They can appear in a peanut crop beginning about 100 days after planting or after periods of dry hot weather.  Areas of root-knot nematode damaged peanut are usually round to oblong in shape, and rows of infected plants may never overlap as those of healthy plants. It is common for plants to wilt and eventually die in areas where nematode populations are high.Root symptoms are similar to those caused by all nematodes including a reduction in number of feeder roots and root stunting, but root knot nematodes cause unique symptoms on roots and pods. Nematodes cause galls (knots) to form on both roots and pods of the peanut, and these galls are highly diagnostic for root-knot nematode presence compared to other nematodes affecting peanut. The presence of galls on roots, pegs and pods appears as single or multiple wart-like growths that may or may not be discolored. As root knot nematode infection progresses, and generally later in the season, secondary root and pod rots cause further damage and eventual death of the plants.Many soil-borne fungi, especially Sclerotium rolfsii (which causes southern stem rot) and Sclerotinia minor (which causes Sclerotinia blight), will infect the weakened peanut plants and cause more plant death. Root knot nematode infection of the peg weakens the peg so that it breaks during harvest, contributing to additional yield losses because the detached pods are then left in the soil. Infection of the pods leads to a decline in yield quality.The damage threshold, or the initial nematode population density at which peanut yields begin to decline, has been reported to be in the range of 1 to 10 eggs and second stage juveniles per 500 cm3 soil for M. arenaria on susceptible peanut cultivars.	 date palm Meloidogyne arenaria

Meloidogyne hapla (Northern root-knot nematode) has a wide host range. It is polyphagous and affects over 550 crops and weeds. It feeds on many agricultural and horticultural plants (vegetables, fruits, ornamentals), but few grasses or cereals. A list of known hosts can be found at the bottom of this page.Symptoms can be seen in the roots, leaves, and the overall growth of the infected plant. In roots, there may be stunting, wilting, and the formation of abnormal growths called galls. Galls are usually small and spherical and are situated near many small roots. They are formed when the nematode enters the root and releases chemicals to enlarge root cells, on which they feed. The roots become defective and therefore cannot transport water and nutrients properly. The end result is stunted, wilted, and yellowing plants (characteristic of nutrient deficiency) and a decreased yield. Severity of the symptoms depends on nematode population density and host plant species and cultivar. As the number of nematodes increase in the area, the number and size of root galls increase as well. Each crop responds to Meloidogyne hapla differently. Carrots typically undergo severe forking with galling of the roots, lettuce have beadlike galls, and grasses and onions have small and barely noticeable galls and symptoms. In potato tubers (special stems), brown spots will appear on areas of the tubers where the females have laid their eggs.If a field has a patchy distribution of symptoms, it usually indicates the presence of nematodes. Most nematodes are not usually distributed uniformly in the soil. To correctly identify Meloidogyne hapla, the infected plant should be sent to a lab for a proper diagnosis. One common method is perineal pattern analysis where the perineum of the female nematode (area between the anus and the vulva) is examined for a specific pattern in ridges and annulations. Another common method is analyzing isozyme (different variations of the same enzyme produced by different genes) electrophoretic profiles using esterase and malate dehydrogenase.	 date palm Meloidogyne hapla

Plants affected by M. incognita present above ground symptoms of water- and nutrient-stress, yellowing, wilting, and stunting. Below ground galling on roots, bulbs, tubers is the typical symptom. Plant death may occur in high infestation level.	 date palm Meloidogyne incognita

Because there are so many different hosts for this pathogen, the symptoms are very variable. Common symptoms include abnormal leaf color, abnormal leaf form, wilting leaves, galls, swollen roots, reduced root system, dwarfing and senescence (Cabi 2018). This pathogen does the most damage when present in light soils with hot weather conditions (Alford 2012).	 date palm Meloidogyne javanica

It has been shown that the fungus usually requires wounds to infect the plant and necessary for the fungus to develop. The first symptoms of Pestalotiopsis palmarum begin as very small yellow, brown or black discoloration of the leaves.  The disease can be restricted to the leaf blade or may only appear on the petiole and rachis right away.  Spots and discoloration areas can be smaller than 0.25 inches (6.4 mm) in size, but under optimal conditions can grow much larger eventually forming lesions.  The spots will often turn a grayish color and will be outlined in black.  Extreme wilting and a drying appearance on the leaves is also a major symptom of Pestalotiopsis palm.In mature palms, if the fungus is limited to only leaf spots, the disease may not be very serious and damaging.  However, the fungus can severely affect juvenile plants if only a few leaf spots are present because they have yet to develop a trunk and only have a few leaves.	 date palm Pestalotia palmarum

It has been shown that the fungus usually requires wounds to infect the plant and necessary for the fungus to develop. The first symptoms of Pestalotiopsis palmarum begin as very small yellow, brown or black discoloration of the leaves.  The disease can be restricted to the leaf blade or may only appear on the petiole and rachis right away.  Spots and discoloration areas can be smaller than 0.25 inches (6.4 mm) in size, but under optimal conditions can grow much larger eventually forming lesions.  The spots will often turn a grayish color and will be outlined in black.  Extreme wilting and a drying appearance on the leaves is also a major symptom of Pestalotiopsis palm.In mature palms, if the fungus is limited to only leaf spots, the disease may not be very serious and damaging.  However, the fungus can severely affect juvenile plants if only a few leaf spots are present because they have yet to develop a trunk and only have a few leaves.	 date palm Pestalotiopsis palmarum

Root lesion nematode has a wide host range, including hosts like apple, cherry, conifers, roses, tomato, potato, corn, onion and sugarbeets, and ornamentals such as Narcissus. More than 164 hosts for P. penetrans have been recorded.  In the host range there are some hosts that are susceptible, such as wheat, oat, field pea, faba bean, and chickpea, and some that are moderately susceptible, such as barley and canola.Some general symptoms that are produced on infected plants include poor growth, fruit spot, and chlorotic foliage.  These secondary symptoms are often due to plant root stress.  These make it rather difficult to diagnose nematode diseases in general.  The roots when infected produce necrotic lesions, which are darkened areas of dead tissue, on the surface and throughout the cortex of the infected roots.  These lesions turn the root to reddish-brown to black and are initially spotty.  As the nematode continues to feed, the lesions can coalesce to become large necrotic areas of tissue that may eventually girdle the root. The population size of the nematode affects the degree of symptoms.  Low to moderate populations may cause no visible above ground symptoms, while high populations can lead to stunting, nutrient and water deficiencies, and eventual die-back of the plant.  On potato, infection of root lesion nematode can cause a secondary invasion by Verticillium dahliae leading to Potato Early Dying.  Onions are another important host of P. penetrans.  Onions are an important vegetable for consumption in the United States and upon infection the nematodes can limit yield and quality of the bulbs.  Populations of more than 0.01 nematode per cubic centimeter of soil resulted in injury to onions.  There is a negative relationship between the increasing inoculum levels on onion root and top fresh weight at harvest.	 date palm Pratylenchus penetrans

The infestation of the pest can result in yellowing and wilting of palms, that may lead to the death of the affected plant.The crown wilts first, and lower leaves will follow, due to damage to vascular tissue. Major symptoms such as crown loss or leaf wilt are usually only visible long after the palm has become infested. Secondary infections of opportunistic bacteria and fungi may occur within damaged tissues, accelerating decline. By the time these external symptoms are observed, the damage is usually sufficient to kill the tree, and the infestation may have been present for six months or longer. In high-density infestations, sounds of the larvae burrowing and chewing can be heard by placing one's ear to the trunk of the palm. Recent research has been conducted using electronic listening devices or dogs trained to recognize the scent of weevils or palm decay to detect infestations at low densities earlier in the process.							 date palm Rhynchophorus ferrugineus

One of the most well-known diseases caused by Ceratocystis paradoxa is Black rot or stem-end rot of pineapple, but it can also infect tropical fruit plants such as banana and coconuts as well as sugarcane. The pathogen infects the fruits through wounds or other openings after harvest has already happened and the fruit is fresh.Symptoms for this disease are very obvious black lesions on the fruit, the main infection part of the plant. If the pathogen infects the plant while fruits are still on it, they will prematurely drop. Other symptoms include discoloration of leaves as well as the seeds. The lesions on the fruit evolve to become soft rot spots that produce a heinous odor. The fruit can even get to the point of breakdown.Known hosts:Ananas comosus (pineapple)AraceaeAreca catechu (betelnut palm)Borassus flabellifer (toddy palm)Butia capitataCocos nucifera (coconut)Coffea (coffee)Daucus carota (carrot)Dypsis decaryiElaeis guineensis (African oil palm)EucalyptusHowea forsteriana (paradise palm)Mangifera indica (mango)Musa x paradisiaca (plantain)Phoenix dactylifera (date-palm)Saccharum officinarum (sugarcane)Solanum muricatum (melon pear)Theobroma cacao (cocoa)Zea mays (maize)	 date palm Thielaviopsis paradoxa

Cephaleuros virescens is known to have a broad host range, the widest host range of the species. It has been recorded on 287 plant species and cultivars on the U.S. Gulf coast alone. Common hosts of the plant include tropical trees and shrubs, with the following being the more common or economically important; tea, kava, pepper, para rubber, magnolia, coffee, holly, Indian hawthorn, oil palm, avocado, vanilla, mango, breadfruit, guava, coconut, cashews, cacao, citrus, etc.Most commonly Cephaleuros virescens is identified by the leaf spots it causes. Theses leaf spots are an orange-brown rust in color and usually occur entirely on the upper leaf surface, although leaf spots on the undersides of infected leaves have been reported. The spots are fuzzy in texture and approximately 2 cm (0.8 in) in diameter. In some cases, commonly in more susceptible hosts, stem and fruit spots can occur as a result of infection as well. These leaf spots cause a reduction in plant photosynthetic surface area. While usually harmless, severe causes of these leaf spots can lead to defoliation, twig dieback, tissue necrosis, and loss of marketable fruit.	 durian Cephaleuros virescens

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 durian Fusarium solani

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 durian Glomerella cingulata

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 durian Lasiodiplodia theobromae

One of the most harmful seed and soil borne pathogens, Macrophomina phaseolina is a fungus that infects nearly 500 plant species in more than 100 families. The hosts include: peanut, cabbage, pepper, chickpea, soybean, sunflower, sweet potato, alfalfa, sesame, potato, sorghum, wheat, and corn, among others. The identification of isolates of M. phaseolina is usually based on morphology and efforts to divide the pathogen into subspecies, but because there are wide intraspecific variations in the phenotype of the isolates, these criteria are often not reliable. The failure to correctly detect and identify M. phaseolina using conventional culture-based morphological techniques has led scientists to develop nucleic acid-based molecular approaches, such as highly sensitive and specific polymerase chain reaction-based methods. Researchers have also recently created species-specific oligonucleotide primers and digoxigenin-labeled probes in hopes of better identifying and detecting M. phaseolina.The pathogen M. phaseolina affects the fibrovascular system of the roots and basal internodes of its host, impeding the transport of water and nutrients to the upper parts of the plant. As a result, progressive wilting, premature dying, loss of vigor, and reduced yield are characteristic symptoms of M. phaseolina infection. The fungus also causes many diseases like damping off, seedling blight, collar rot, stem rot, charcoal rot, basal stem rot, and root rot. Although brown lesions may form on the hypocotyls or emerging seedlings, many symptoms occur during or after flowering, including grey discoloration of the stem and taproots, shredding of plant tissue in the stem and top of the taproot, and hollowing of the stem. Small black dots may form beneath the epidermis of the lower stem and in the taproot, giving the stems and roots a charcoal-sprinkled appearance. When the epidermis is removed, small and black microsclerotia (a sign of the disease) may be so numerous that they give a greyish-black tint to the plant tissue. In addition, reddish-brown discoloration and black streaks can form in the pith and vascular tissues of the root and stem.	 durian Macrophomina phaseolina

Erythricium salmonicolor has a very broad host range. The host plants of greatest importance include rubber, tea, coffee, cacao, grapefruit, orange, nutmeg, mango, apple, coca, and kola. Pink Disease can cause heavy losses including individual branch death to the loss of the whole tree in cases where the main stem or several branches are affected. E. salmonicolor causes girdling cankers which prevent the normal function of some physiological processes, eventually leading to defoliation and die-back of outer branches. On rubber trees, initial stages of infection appear as drops of latex and silky-white mycelial growth on the bark surface. In black pepper plants, sterile pink to white pustules approximately 1 mm in diameter appear on young green stems. In citrus trees, sterile pustules may appear first, and in some cases the trees may have oozing sap or gum. In cacao trees, first symptoms of infection usually present as a sparse white mycelium on the bark surface, which can be easily overlooked. Trees are most susceptible in areas with high levels of rainfall, such as tropical rainforests. Diagnosis of Pink Disease is typically achieved through the use of light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy to observe sporulation of the pathogen.	 durian Phanerochaete salmonicolor

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 durian Phytophthora nicotianae var. nicotianae

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 durian Phytophthora nicotianae var. parasitica

Although the common name of Phytophthora palmivora is bud rot of palms, and its Latin name means "plant destroyer" and "palm eater", it affects many tropical plants and has a moderately broad host range. P. palmivora is well studied in coconuts and papaya trees, however there are multiple hosts that are less commonly studied.  One common symptom of P. palmivora is fruit rots which are found in papaya, citrus, coconuts, durian, and cacao. Root rots are another symptom of P. palmivora and can be seen in red maples, citrus, papaya, mango, durian, and black pepper. Another symptom is the presence of cankers which are found in red maple, papaya, rubber, mangos, and cacao. Bud rots can also be seen in papaya and coconuts infected with P. palmivora. Bud rots are also found in Palmyra palms and coconut palms. Collar rots are found on citrus, mango, and black pepper infected with P. palmivora. The signs of P. palmivora are microscopic and can be differentiated from other oomycetes by the presence of oval shaped papillate sporangia with short pedicles and spherical oogonia with narrow stalks (Widmer, 2014).	 durian Phytophthora palmivora

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 durian Phytophthora parasitica

Root lesion nematodes infect a great variety of hosts. Pratylenchus penetrans alone has over 350 host plants. They include agricultural crops such as soybeans, potatoes, corn, bananas, and wheat. The genus is found most often in corn. Signs of disease are similar in most plants and generally include necrotic lesions of the roots. The lesions can also be entrances for pathogenic bacteria and fungi, which produce secondary infections. Above ground the plant becomes stunted, chlorotic, and wilted, and it often dies. A crop field may be patchy as plants wither and die. Root lesion nematodes can cause significant yield losses.	 durian Pratylenchus

P. pendula infestations can be detected by a number of symptoms. Holes in leaves and sometimes defoliation are some signs, and discolouration may also result.	 durian Pteroma pendula

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 durian Rhizoctonia solani

Armillaria mellea typically infects hardwood trees and conifers but sometimes will infect non-woody monocots and a few herbaceous plants. There are few signs, and the ones that do exist are often hard to find. The most prominent sign is honey-colored mushrooms at the base of the infected plant. Additional signs include white, fan-shaped mycelia and black rhizomorphs with diameters between 1/32nd of an inch and 1/8th of an inch. These usually are not as noticeable because they occur beneath the bark and in the soil, respectively. The symptoms are much more numerous, including slower growth, dieback of branches, yellowing foliage, rotted wood at base and/or roots, external cankers, cracking bark, bleeding stem, leaf wilting, defoliation, and rapid death. Leaf wilting, defoliation, and dieback occur after the destruction of the cambium.	 elm Armillaria mellea

Stegophora ulmea infects all Ulmus species and Japanese zelkova.  It is most virulent on American white elm, Ulmus Americana. Other elms it is known to infect include:Ulmus alata (winged elm)Ulmus carpinifolia (European field elm)Ulmus crassifolia (cedar elm)Ulmus glabra (Wych elm)Ulmus hollandica (Dutch elm)Ulmus japonica (Japanese elm)Ulmus laciniataUlmus laevis (European white elm)Ulmus parvifolia (Chinese elm)Ulmus procera (English elm)Ulmus pumila (Siberian elm)Ulmus serotinaUlmus thomasii (rock elm)Ulmus rubra (slippery elm)Zelkova serrataStegophora ulmea is characterized by chlorotic yellow spots 1 millimeter in diameter with a black center that develop early in the spring. They darken and become raised. The black center can increase to occupy the entire chlorotic area. The black spots can become about 5 millimeters in diameter. As the season continues, the tissue around the original spot may become necrotic. In severe cases of the disease there is premature shedding of leaves, blight of young leaves and shoots, and complete defoliation early in the fall. Fruits that are infected become crumpled. Infection of mature trees is rarely fatal.	 elm Asteroma ulmeum

An irregular browning leaf margin which may or may not be bordered by a pale halo.Symptoms re-occur every year, spreading throughout the tree crown, eventually killing the host plant.	 elm Bacterial leaf scorch

One of the most well-known diseases caused by Ceratocystis paradoxa is Black rot or stem-end rot of pineapple, but it can also infect tropical fruit plants such as banana and coconuts as well as sugarcane. The pathogen infects the fruits through wounds or other openings after harvest has already happened and the fruit is fresh.Symptoms for this disease are very obvious black lesions on the fruit, the main infection part of the plant. If the pathogen infects the plant while fruits are still on it, they will prematurely drop. Other symptoms include discoloration of leaves as well as the seeds. The lesions on the fruit evolve to become soft rot spots that produce a heinous odor. The fruit can even get to the point of breakdown.Known hosts:Ananas comosus (pineapple)AraceaeAreca catechu (betelnut palm)Borassus flabellifer (toddy palm)Butia capitataCocos nucifera (coconut)Coffea (coffee)Daucus carota (carrot)Dypsis decaryiElaeis guineensis (African oil palm)EucalyptusHowea forsteriana (paradise palm)Mangifera indica (mango)Musa x paradisiaca (plantain)Phoenix dactylifera (date-palm)Saccharum officinarum (sugarcane)Solanum muricatum (melon pear)Theobroma cacao (cocoa)Zea mays (maize)	 elm Chalara thielavioides

All brambles, especially black raspberries, are susceptible to cane blight. The causal agent for Cane Blight is the fungus Leptosphaeria coniothyrium.The infection spreads internally first, therefore outwardly noticeable symptoms typically do not appear quickly. Symptoms could be exposed by peeling back the xylem and looking at the internal plant tissue. Healthy tissue would appear green, whereas diseased tissue develop dark lesions and vascular streaking.By late summer or fall, well after the initial infection, dark red or purple lesions can appear near wounded sites. Sometimes, large cankers develop causing necrosis and death of the cane in the following year. In the spring buds may fail to break, lateral branches may appear wilted, or canes may die as the fruit begins to ripen. Canes can also break or appear brittle near infection sites.Signs of cane blight include small black raised specks, which are the sporocarps, or fruiting bodies called pycnidia and/or pseudothecia. In wet conditions, gray spore masses may appear and ooze from cankers on the cane or in dry conditions appear fuzzy and powdery.	 elm Diapleella coniothyrium

When an elm is infected with elm yellows, the root hairs die. The phytoplasma infection then moves up the bark and infects the phloem, depriving the tree of nutrients. Death of the phloem essentially strangles the tree. As the phloem is infected, it will change color and take on a wintergreen smell, similar to that of black birch or birch beer.The crown, top of the tree turns yellow all at once, it can occur from July till September, when the leafhoppers are active. It turns yellow from a lack of nutrients to the top of the tree.	 elm Elm Yellows

Stegophora ulmea infects all Ulmus species and Japanese zelkova.  It is most virulent on American white elm, Ulmus Americana. Other elms it is known to infect include:Ulmus alata (winged elm)Ulmus carpinifolia (European field elm)Ulmus crassifolia (cedar elm)Ulmus glabra (Wych elm)Ulmus hollandica (Dutch elm)Ulmus japonica (Japanese elm)Ulmus laciniataUlmus laevis (European white elm)Ulmus parvifolia (Chinese elm)Ulmus procera (English elm)Ulmus pumila (Siberian elm)Ulmus serotinaUlmus thomasii (rock elm)Ulmus rubra (slippery elm)Zelkova serrataStegophora ulmea is characterized by chlorotic yellow spots 1 millimeter in diameter with a black center that develop early in the spring. They darken and become raised. The black center can increase to occupy the entire chlorotic area. The black spots can become about 5 millimeters in diameter. As the season continues, the tissue around the original spot may become necrotic. In severe cases of the disease there is premature shedding of leaves, blight of young leaves and shoots, and complete defoliation early in the fall. Fruits that are infected become crumpled. Infection of mature trees is rarely fatal.	 elm Gloeosporium ulmeum

Stegophora ulmea infects all Ulmus species and Japanese zelkova.  It is most virulent on American white elm, Ulmus Americana. Other elms it is known to infect include:Ulmus alata (winged elm)Ulmus carpinifolia (European field elm)Ulmus crassifolia (cedar elm)Ulmus glabra (Wych elm)Ulmus hollandica (Dutch elm)Ulmus japonica (Japanese elm)Ulmus laciniataUlmus laevis (European white elm)Ulmus parvifolia (Chinese elm)Ulmus procera (English elm)Ulmus pumila (Siberian elm)Ulmus serotinaUlmus thomasii (rock elm)Ulmus rubra (slippery elm)Zelkova serrataStegophora ulmea is characterized by chlorotic yellow spots 1 millimeter in diameter with a black center that develop early in the spring. They darken and become raised. The black center can increase to occupy the entire chlorotic area. The black spots can become about 5 millimeters in diameter. As the season continues, the tissue around the original spot may become necrotic. In severe cases of the disease there is premature shedding of leaves, blight of young leaves and shoots, and complete defoliation early in the fall. Fruits that are infected become crumpled. Infection of mature trees is rarely fatal.	 elm Gloeosporium ulmicola

Stegophora ulmea infects all Ulmus species and Japanese zelkova.  It is most virulent on American white elm, Ulmus Americana. Other elms it is known to infect include:Ulmus alata (winged elm)Ulmus carpinifolia (European field elm)Ulmus crassifolia (cedar elm)Ulmus glabra (Wych elm)Ulmus hollandica (Dutch elm)Ulmus japonica (Japanese elm)Ulmus laciniataUlmus laevis (European white elm)Ulmus parvifolia (Chinese elm)Ulmus procera (English elm)Ulmus pumila (Siberian elm)Ulmus serotinaUlmus thomasii (rock elm)Ulmus rubra (slippery elm)Zelkova serrataStegophora ulmea is characterized by chlorotic yellow spots 1 millimeter in diameter with a black center that develop early in the spring. They darken and become raised. The black center can increase to occupy the entire chlorotic area. The black spots can become about 5 millimeters in diameter. As the season continues, the tissue around the original spot may become necrotic. In severe cases of the disease there is premature shedding of leaves, blight of young leaves and shoots, and complete defoliation early in the fall. Fruits that are infected become crumpled. Infection of mature trees is rarely fatal.	 elm Gnomonia ulmea

In susceptible crops, any parts below the ground are liable to infection. The mycelium of the fungus forms a matted, felt-like purple covering which grows over the surface of the root. Soil particles adhere to this and small, dark-coloured sclerotia grow among the hyphae. A dry rot occurs and secondary rots may move in. Mycelial threads, often merging into strands, grow through the soil and infect nearby plants. A pink or brown mat of mycelial threads may grow above the soil surface. In affected plants, the aerial parts may wilt and have discoloured, stunted foliage.	 elm Helicobasidium brebissonii

All brambles, especially black raspberries, are susceptible to cane blight. The causal agent for Cane Blight is the fungus Leptosphaeria coniothyrium.The infection spreads internally first, therefore outwardly noticeable symptoms typically do not appear quickly. Symptoms could be exposed by peeling back the xylem and looking at the internal plant tissue. Healthy tissue would appear green, whereas diseased tissue develop dark lesions and vascular streaking.By late summer or fall, well after the initial infection, dark red or purple lesions can appear near wounded sites. Sometimes, large cankers develop causing necrosis and death of the cane in the following year. In the spring buds may fail to break, lateral branches may appear wilted, or canes may die as the fruit begins to ripen. Canes can also break or appear brittle near infection sites.Signs of cane blight include small black raised specks, which are the sporocarps, or fruiting bodies called pycnidia and/or pseudothecia. In wet conditions, gray spore masses may appear and ooze from cankers on the cane or in dry conditions appear fuzzy and powdery.	 elm Leptosphaeria coniothyrium

Nectria cinnabarina, also known as coral spot, is a weak pathogen of broadleaf trees. While beech is the main host, the parasite can also affect Sycamore, Horse Chestnut, and Hornbeam. This pathogen usually affects trees that have already been weakened as a result of stressful factors, such as drought or fungal infestation. Physical damage can also make the tree susceptible to the pathogen. The pathogen forms pink fungal blobs (indicative of its sexual stage) on the outside of dead wood which turn a reddish-brown color and become quite hard. The blobs are usually 1 to 4 mm in length. Other symptoms include small twigs and branches dying back and branch necrosis. The bark that is infected becomes weak and tends to snap off in windy weather. The pathogen thrives in dead wood and airborne spores infect living trees and shrubs through wounds. Since it is caused by a weak fungus, isolation of the pathogen from diseased tissue and an analysis for fungal properties, such as induced sporulation or microscopically seeing cross-walls in hyphae, can aid in diagnosis. Furthermore, many fungi studies in media involve the formation of concentric hyphal zonations or rings of sporulation as the colony develops. This zonation is usually attributed to environmental changes. The sporulation rhythm of N. cinnabarina is conveyed by concentric rings or spirals and is dependent on temperature.	 elm Nectria cinnabarina

Ophiostoma ulmi has a relatively narrow host range as it infects only elm trees (Ulmus spp.) and Zelkova carpinifolia. Habitat preferences of elms play a large part in determining their susceptibility as a host for Dutch elm disease. For example, of the three native European elm species (Ulmus glabra Huds., Ulmus laevis Pall. and Ulmus minor), all are susceptible to infection by O. ulmi, but Ulmus glabra has a much smaller chance of being inoculated than Ulmus minor. This is because the insect vector prefers the warm humid habitat of Ulmus minor to the cold hemiboreal habitat of Ulmus glabra. For this reason, Ulmus minor has been almost completely eliminated by the disease.  In North America, Ulmus americana, U. thomasii, U. alata, U. serotina and U. rubra are listed as highly susceptible to Dutch Elm disease, while U. crassifolia is less threatened. Ophiostoma ulmi causes symptoms commonly associated with most vascular wilts. Trees that have been infected by a vector will exhibit symptoms of leaf wilting and yellowing on branches and twigs that have been colonized by the Scolytid beetle. These symptoms are most often apparent from July into the autumn months. Trees that have contracted the disease via root grafts will often proceed much more quickly because the whole tree is compromised at once. Diagnosis of this disease is usually done by examining the xylem tissue of twigs and branches of the trees. Symptoms of brown streaking that runs in the direction of the grain of the wood, and tylosis formation by the tree as a reaction to the fungal infection are characteristic of this disease.Breeding efforts began as early as the 1920s to try to combat this disease, and some crosses bred from resistant Asian species of elm and susceptible European species have shown a decrease in susceptibility to the pathogen. However, with the introduction of Ophiostoma novo-ulmi many of these resistant species struggle to survive.	 elm Ophiostoma ulmi

The first symptom of infection is usually an upper branch of the tree with leaves starting to wither and yellow in summer, months before the normal autumnal leaf shedding. This morbidity spreads in a progressive manner throughout the tree, with further dieback of branches. Eventually, the roots die, starved of nutrients from the leaves. Often, not all the roots die: the roots of some species, especially the English elm, Ulmus minor 'Atinia' (formerly Ulmus procera), can repeatedly put up suckers, which flourish for approximately 15 years before dying off.	 elm Pesotum ulmi

Symptoms can include dieback, swelling, formations of witches’ broom and weakened branches.Leafy mistletoe can occur on several hundred host species. These include hardwood trees.Signs are green leafy green stems, and berries.	 elm Phoradendron tomentosum

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 elm Phymatotrichopsis omnivora

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 elm Phymatotrichum omnivorum

In susceptible crops, any parts below the ground are liable to infection. The mycelium of the fungus forms a matted, felt-like purple covering which grows over the surface of the root. Soil particles adhere to this and small, dark-coloured sclerotia grow among the hyphae. A dry rot occurs and secondary rots may move in. Mycelial threads, often merging into strands, grow through the soil and infect nearby plants. A pink or brown mat of mycelial threads may grow above the soil surface. In affected plants, the aerial parts may wilt and have discoloured, stunted foliage.	 elm Rhizoctonia crocorum

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 elm Rhizoctonia solani

Stegophora ulmea infects all Ulmus species and Japanese zelkova.  It is most virulent on American white elm, Ulmus Americana. Other elms it is known to infect include:Ulmus alata (winged elm)Ulmus carpinifolia (European field elm)Ulmus crassifolia (cedar elm)Ulmus glabra (Wych elm)Ulmus hollandica (Dutch elm)Ulmus japonica (Japanese elm)Ulmus laciniataUlmus laevis (European white elm)Ulmus parvifolia (Chinese elm)Ulmus procera (English elm)Ulmus pumila (Siberian elm)Ulmus serotinaUlmus thomasii (rock elm)Ulmus rubra (slippery elm)Zelkova serrataStegophora ulmea is characterized by chlorotic yellow spots 1 millimeter in diameter with a black center that develop early in the spring. They darken and become raised. The black center can increase to occupy the entire chlorotic area. The black spots can become about 5 millimeters in diameter. As the season continues, the tissue around the original spot may become necrotic. In severe cases of the disease there is premature shedding of leaves, blight of young leaves and shoots, and complete defoliation early in the fall. Fruits that are infected become crumpled. Infection of mature trees is rarely fatal.	 elm Stegophora ulmea

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 elm Thanatephorus cucumeris

Nectria cinnabarina, also known as coral spot, is a weak pathogen of broadleaf trees. While beech is the main host, the parasite can also affect Sycamore, Horse Chestnut, and Hornbeam. This pathogen usually affects trees that have already been weakened as a result of stressful factors, such as drought or fungal infestation. Physical damage can also make the tree susceptible to the pathogen. The pathogen forms pink fungal blobs (indicative of its sexual stage) on the outside of dead wood which turn a reddish-brown color and become quite hard. The blobs are usually 1 to 4 mm in length. Other symptoms include small twigs and branches dying back and branch necrosis. The bark that is infected becomes weak and tends to snap off in windy weather. The pathogen thrives in dead wood and airborne spores infect living trees and shrubs through wounds. Since it is caused by a weak fungus, isolation of the pathogen from diseased tissue and an analysis for fungal properties, such as induced sporulation or microscopically seeing cross-walls in hyphae, can aid in diagnosis. Furthermore, many fungi studies in media involve the formation of concentric hyphal zonations or rings of sporulation as the colony develops. This zonation is usually attributed to environmental changes. The sporulation rhythm of N. cinnabarina is conveyed by concentric rings or spirals and is dependent on temperature.	 elm Tubercularia vulgaris

Significant variation in symptoms is seen between diseases, though some symptoms are expressed across species. On a macroscopic scale, plants infected with a X. fastidiosa-related disease exhibit symptoms of water, zinc, and iron deficiencies, manifesting as leaf scorching and stunting in leaves turning them yellowish-brown, gummy substance around leaves, fruit reduction in size and quality, and overall plant height.  As the bacterium progressively colonizes xylem tissues, affected plants often block off their xylem tissue, which can limit the spread of this pathogen; blocking can occur in the form of polysaccharide-rich gels, tyloses, or both.  These plant defenses do not seem to hinder the movement of X. fastidiosa. Occlusion of vascular tissue, while a normal plant response to infection, makes symptoms significantly worse; as the bacterium itself also reduces vascular function, a 90% reduction of vascular hydraulic function was seen in susceptible Vitis vinifera.  This bacterium rarely completely blocks vascular tissue. There usually is a slight amount of vascular function that keeps the plant alive, but makes its fruit or branches die, making the specific plant economically nonproductive. This can cause a massive drop on supply of quality fruit. Smaller colonies usually occur throughout a high proportion of xylem vessels of a symptomatic plant.X. fastidiosa is a Gram-negative, xylem-limited illness that is spread by insects. It can damage a variety of broadleaved tree species that are commonly grown in the United States. X. Fastidiosa can be found in about 600 different plant species.Withering and desiccation of branchesLeaf chlorosisDwarfing or lack of growth of the plantDrooping appearance and shorter internodesShriveled fruits on infected plantsPremature fruit abscissiongum-like substance on leavehardening and size reduction of fruit	 elm Xylella fastidiosa

Aster yellows affects a long list of plant species including native plants, annual flowering plants, ornamentals, weeds, and vegetables crops. The largest family affected is the Asteraceae, and ornamental plants commonly infected are asters, marigolds, coreopsis, sunflowers, and purple coneflower.  Regarding vegetable crops, onion, lettuce, celery, and carrot are affected with the latter suffering the greatest losses.The range of characteristic symptoms varies by the phytoplasma strain, timing of infection, plant species, temperature, age, and size of the plant. The symptoms can be mistaken for herbicide damage or virus symptoms.  They include vein clearing until the entire leaf becomes chlorotic, stunting, deformation, virescence (greening of flowers), phyllody (development of leaf-like flower petals), reddening of foliage, reduced root system, and sterility.  Aster yellows does not typically kill perennial host plants. The symptoms caused by the disease are exacerbated by hot climates while some plants in cooler climates may be asymptomatic.Characteristic symptoms specific to the carrot include initial vein clearing and chlorosis, followed by production of many adventitious shoots, with the tops looking like a witches’-broom.  The internodes of such shoots are short as are the leaf petioles.  Young leaves are smaller and dry up while the petioles of older leaves twist and break off.  Any remaining older leaves turn bronze or red late in the season.  Floral parts are deformed and roots are smaller, abnormally shaped, and have woolly secondary roots.  The carrot roots are predisposed to soft rots in the field and storage and taste unpleasant to the consumer.	 flax Aster yellows

Signs and symptoms of flax rust include:	 flax Melampsora lini var. lini

Phytoplasmas can infect and cause various symptoms in more than 700 plant species. One characteristic symptom is abnormal floral organ development including phyllody (i.e., the production of leaf-like structures in place of flowers) and virescence (i.e., the development of green flowers attributable to a loss of pigment by petal cells). Phytoplasma-harboring flowering plants may nevertheless be sterile. The expression of genes involved in maintaining the apical meristem or in the development of floral organs is altered in the morphologically affected floral organs of phytoplasma-infected plants.A phytoplasma infection often triggers leaf yellowing, probably due to the presence of phytoplasma cells in phloem, which can affect phloem function and carbohydrate transport, inhibit chlorophyll biosynthesis, and trigger chlorophyll breakdown. These symptoms may be attributable to stress caused by the infection rather than a specific pathogenetic process.Many phytoplasma-infected plants develop a bushy or "witches' broom" appearance due to changes in their normal growth patterns. Most plants exhibit apical dominance but infection can trigger the proliferation of axillary (side) shoots and a reduction in internode size. Such symptoms are actually useful in the commercial production of poinsettias. Infection triggers more axillary shoot production; the poinsettia plants thus produce more than a single flower.	 flax Phytoplasma

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 flax Rhizoctonia solani

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 flax Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 flax Thanatephorus cucumeris

As with all plant viruses, the symptoms exhibited on an infected plant depend on the plant species. Symptoms of BiMoV in various hosts have been described as mild to severe mottling, slight to severe leaf distortion, vein clearing, and stunting. It can cause flower break symptoms and flower abortion in some hosts and at least one host has been found that shows no visible symptoms.Symptoms of Bidens mottle virus on Lark Daisy (Centratherum punctatum).Symptoms of Bidens mottle virus in Faba bean (Vicia faba).	 foliage plant Bidens mottle virus

This virus was first characterized in cucumbers (Cucumis sativus) showing mosaic symptoms in 1934, hence the name Cucumber mosaic. Since then, it has been found to infect a great variety of other plants. These include other vegetables such as squash, melons, peppers, eggplants, tomatoes, beans, carrots, celery, lettuce, spinach, beets, many ornamentals and bedding plants, such as Narcissus, and various weeds. Its presence has been confirmed on every continent of the world, including Antarctica.Symptoms seen with this virus include leaf mosaic or mottling (Fig. 1), yellowing, ringspots, stunting, and leaf, flower and fruit distortion. CMV also induces a type of symptom on leaves known as the "shoestring" effect on many host species. This effect causes young leaves to appear narrow and the entire plant to be stunted.Specifically, CMV can cause cucumbers to turn pale and bumpy. The leaves of these plants turn mosaic and their rugosity is often changed, making leaves wrinkled and misshapen. Growth of these plants is usually also stunted and produces few flowers. Often, cucumber fruits are oddly shaped, appear gray, and tested bitter. These appearances lead to them being referred to as "white pickles".Tomato plants are usually stunted and have poorly shaped leaves, or "fernleaf", when infected by CMV. Also certain strains of CMV can cause partial or total crop loss. CMV in peppers causes slightly different symptoms than the previously mentioned. Pepper plants often have severe foliar damage, shown as mosaic and necrotic rings. Often the peppers themselves are misshapen and contain chlorotic rings and spots. In celery, CMV causes streaking and spotting and can be often confused with symptoms of the celery mosaic virus. Symptoms of CMV in lettuce, such as chlorosis, plant stunting and often do not properly head, can be very similar to those of lettuce mosaic virus.CMV has also been identified in a lesser extent to a number of plant species. It is found to be a minor virus infecting Allium crops. The virus infection causes extensive malformation on garlic plants, and mild malformation to severe necrotic streaks on onion leaves. The severe damages on garlic plants and difficulty of aphids transmission of garlic isolate, were possible causal for the rare CMV on garlic. Genetically, the two onion isolates from Turkey (CMV-14.3Po and CMV-15.5Po) are highly similar to others isolated from various plant species in Mediterranean, European, and East Asian countries. CMV was also detected on American beautyberry, an important wildlife and pollinator food source plant native to North America.In plant tissue this virus makes characteristic viral inclusion bodies which can be diagnostic. They are hexagonal in shape (Fig. 2) and stain both in a protein stain and a nucleic acid stain. The inclusions can also be rhomboidal, may appear hollow (Fig. 2) and can form larger aggregates. The inclusions are not uniformly distributed and can be found in epidermal (Fig. 2), mesophyll, and stomatal cells. These inclusions are made up of virus particles.			 foliage plant Cucumber mosaic virus

Symptoms on leaves appear as slightly sunken spots surrounded by a dark brown edge. The center of the spot may appear pink from the spore masses which are being produced by the fungus. Frequently, large areas on the leaf turn brown, dry out along the leaf margins, and eventually the leaf falls off. Symptoms on fruit also develop as small, discolored, sunken areas that enlarge and develop pink spore masses in the center. Fruits that develop will soft rot and drop off the tree. In chrysanthemum, the fungus will first produce an infection canker near the bottom of the stem after which the fungus most likely disturbes the plant hormonal system causing infected plants to grow taller then uninfected plants. In time, infected chrysanthemum plants will also show very typical blister like leasions on the leaves, making this disease quite easily recognisable.    	 foliage plant Nectriella pironii

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 foliage plant Phytophthora nicotianae var. parasitica

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 foliage plant Phytophthora parasitica

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 foliage plant Rhizoctonia solani

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 foliage plant Thanatephorus cucumeris

TSWV infects a variety of hosts, contributing to its global economic impact on crops. There are over a thousand different hosts for TSWV. The host range of TSWV includes agronomically important crops like tomatoes and tobacco. The symptoms of TSWV vary from host to host. There is also variability of symptoms within a single type of host due to the age of the plant, nutrition and the environment (especially temperature). Common symptoms include stunting, ringspots on fruit and necrosis of leaves. There are many different strains of TSWV, and differences in symptoms may also be attributed to the differences in the number of strains present.	 foliage plant Tomato spotted wilt virus

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 foliage plant Colletotrichum gloeosporioides

D. dadantii is phytopathogenic bacterium causing soft rot diseases on many host plants including some which are economically important. D. dadantii, more commonly known as: soft rot, brown rot or blackleg, causes characteristic symptoms associated with other bacterial wilts, causing final diagnosis to be difficult. The pathogen primarily seeks to attack the plant's xylem vessels located in leaves, stems, blossoms and storage organs of herbaceous plants. D. dadantii is able to infect hosts at any point in its life cycle. In addition to symptoms of wilt, the disease appears as sunken and cracked external lesions also having a brown interior in cross section in subterranean bulbs and tubers Diseased plants will display a variety of symptoms including: wilting, stunting and vascular discoloration of the stems. Early symptoms include water soaked lesions at the site of infection, gradually expanding chlorotic leaves and loss of turgor in tissues. The intensity of D. dadantii colonization relates to the amount of disease and degree of damage. The pathogen is very successful at infiltrating host tissues due to the many pectinases responsible for disassembly of plant cell wall polysaccharides. Once the cell wall is degraded cellular structure collapses and this cell maceration gives a characteristic "water-soaked" or rotted appearance. D. dadantii grow intercellularly, continuing to degrade cells and colonize, until it eventually reaches xylem tissues. Upon reaching the xylem vessels D. dadantii possesses the ability to spread to new regions of the host and other areas may begin to display symptoms. Colonization within the xylem restricts flow of water causing loss of turgor pressure and wilting of foliage and stems. Restricted movement of important plant compounds eventually lead to death of the host.	 foliage plant Erwinia chrysanthemi

Gibberella fujikuroi is most widely known for its disease producing capabilities in rice, but barley, millet, sugarcane and maize are also susceptible. In all infected plants, similar symptoms have been found, though rice has been most predominantly studied. The most telltale symptom of Bakanae is the tall, spindly look of the plant. This is a result of the gibberellins, or growth hormones, the fungus secretes. Infected plants are easy to pick out, then, as they often rise above the rest of the healthy plants with regularly secreted growth hormones.  However, it is also possible that stunting may occur, along with Chlorosis of the leaves of the plant, root lesions, or empty grains of plants grown to maturity.	 foliage plant Gibberella fujikuroi

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 foliage plant Glomerella cingulata

Plants affected by M. incognita present above ground symptoms of water- and nutrient-stress, yellowing, wilting, and stunting. Below ground galling on roots, bulbs, tubers is the typical symptom. Plant death may occur in high infestation level.	 foliage plant Meloidogyne incognita

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 foliage plant Phytophthora nicotianae var. parasitica

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 foliage plant Phytophthora parasitica

Root lesion nematodes infect a great variety of hosts. Pratylenchus penetrans alone has over 350 host plants. They include agricultural crops such as soybeans, potatoes, corn, bananas, and wheat. The genus is found most often in corn. Signs of disease are similar in most plants and generally include necrotic lesions of the roots. The lesions can also be entrances for pathogenic bacteria and fungi, which produce secondary infections. Above ground the plant becomes stunted, chlorotic, and wilted, and it often dies. A crop field may be patchy as plants wither and die. Root lesion nematodes can cause significant yield losses.	 foliage plant Pratylenchus

As with all plant viruses, the symptoms exhibited on an infected plant depend on the plant species. Symptoms of BiMoV in various hosts have been described as mild to severe mottling, slight to severe leaf distortion, vein clearing, and stunting. It can cause flower break symptoms and flower abortion in some hosts and at least one host has been found that shows no visible symptoms.Symptoms of Bidens mottle virus on Lark Daisy (Centratherum punctatum).Symptoms of Bidens mottle virus in Faba bean (Vicia faba).	 foliage plant Bidens mottle virus

This virus was first characterized in cucumbers (Cucumis sativus) showing mosaic symptoms in 1934, hence the name Cucumber mosaic. Since then, it has been found to infect a great variety of other plants. These include other vegetables such as squash, melons, peppers, eggplants, tomatoes, beans, carrots, celery, lettuce, spinach, beets, many ornamentals and bedding plants, such as Narcissus, and various weeds. Its presence has been confirmed on every continent of the world, including Antarctica.Symptoms seen with this virus include leaf mosaic or mottling (Fig. 1), yellowing, ringspots, stunting, and leaf, flower and fruit distortion. CMV also induces a type of symptom on leaves known as the "shoestring" effect on many host species. This effect causes young leaves to appear narrow and the entire plant to be stunted.Specifically, CMV can cause cucumbers to turn pale and bumpy. The leaves of these plants turn mosaic and their rugosity is often changed, making leaves wrinkled and misshapen. Growth of these plants is usually also stunted and produces few flowers. Often, cucumber fruits are oddly shaped, appear gray, and tested bitter. These appearances lead to them being referred to as "white pickles".Tomato plants are usually stunted and have poorly shaped leaves, or "fernleaf", when infected by CMV. Also certain strains of CMV can cause partial or total crop loss. CMV in peppers causes slightly different symptoms than the previously mentioned. Pepper plants often have severe foliar damage, shown as mosaic and necrotic rings. Often the peppers themselves are misshapen and contain chlorotic rings and spots. In celery, CMV causes streaking and spotting and can be often confused with symptoms of the celery mosaic virus. Symptoms of CMV in lettuce, such as chlorosis, plant stunting and often do not properly head, can be very similar to those of lettuce mosaic virus.CMV has also been identified in a lesser extent to a number of plant species. It is found to be a minor virus infecting Allium crops. The virus infection causes extensive malformation on garlic plants, and mild malformation to severe necrotic streaks on onion leaves. The severe damages on garlic plants and difficulty of aphids transmission of garlic isolate, were possible causal for the rare CMV on garlic. Genetically, the two onion isolates from Turkey (CMV-14.3Po and CMV-15.5Po) are highly similar to others isolated from various plant species in Mediterranean, European, and East Asian countries. CMV was also detected on American beautyberry, an important wildlife and pollinator food source plant native to North America.In plant tissue this virus makes characteristic viral inclusion bodies which can be diagnostic. They are hexagonal in shape (Fig. 2) and stain both in a protein stain and a nucleic acid stain. The inclusions can also be rhomboidal, may appear hollow (Fig. 2) and can form larger aggregates. The inclusions are not uniformly distributed and can be found in epidermal (Fig. 2), mesophyll, and stomatal cells. These inclusions are made up of virus particles.			 foliage plant Cucumber mosaic virus

D. dadantii is phytopathogenic bacterium causing soft rot diseases on many host plants including some which are economically important. D. dadantii, more commonly known as: soft rot, brown rot or blackleg, causes characteristic symptoms associated with other bacterial wilts, causing final diagnosis to be difficult. The pathogen primarily seeks to attack the plant's xylem vessels located in leaves, stems, blossoms and storage organs of herbaceous plants. D. dadantii is able to infect hosts at any point in its life cycle. In addition to symptoms of wilt, the disease appears as sunken and cracked external lesions also having a brown interior in cross section in subterranean bulbs and tubers Diseased plants will display a variety of symptoms including: wilting, stunting and vascular discoloration of the stems. Early symptoms include water soaked lesions at the site of infection, gradually expanding chlorotic leaves and loss of turgor in tissues. The intensity of D. dadantii colonization relates to the amount of disease and degree of damage. The pathogen is very successful at infiltrating host tissues due to the many pectinases responsible for disassembly of plant cell wall polysaccharides. Once the cell wall is degraded cellular structure collapses and this cell maceration gives a characteristic "water-soaked" or rotted appearance. D. dadantii grow intercellularly, continuing to degrade cells and colonize, until it eventually reaches xylem tissues. Upon reaching the xylem vessels D. dadantii possesses the ability to spread to new regions of the host and other areas may begin to display symptoms. Colonization within the xylem restricts flow of water causing loss of turgor pressure and wilting of foliage and stems. Restricted movement of important plant compounds eventually lead to death of the host.	 foliage plant Erwinia chrysanthemi

Symptoms on leaves appear as slightly sunken spots surrounded by a dark brown edge. The center of the spot may appear pink from the spore masses which are being produced by the fungus. Frequently, large areas on the leaf turn brown, dry out along the leaf margins, and eventually the leaf falls off. Symptoms on fruit also develop as small, discolored, sunken areas that enlarge and develop pink spore masses in the center. Fruits that develop will soft rot and drop off the tree. In chrysanthemum, the fungus will first produce an infection canker near the bottom of the stem after which the fungus most likely disturbes the plant hormonal system causing infected plants to grow taller then uninfected plants. In time, infected chrysanthemum plants will also show very typical blister like leasions on the leaves, making this disease quite easily recognisable.    	 foliage plant Nectriella pironii

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 foliage plant Phytophthora nicotianae

Pseudomonas cichorii is non-host specific as it does not infect just one host. Its host range includes lettuce, pepper, celery, coffee, wheat, basil and several other host plants. Symptoms of the causal agent vary depending on the host and the area of the plant infected. In general, pseudomonas cichorii is seen to cause leaf blighting and spotting. The first appearance of symptoms involves a water soaked lesion that develops at the edge of the leaf, midvein or randomly across the leaf  These lesions progressively turn black or brown and may be surrounded by yellow halos. These lesions also often “coalesce and progress to severe leaf blight under favorable conditions for the bacterium.” When the infected leaves become dry, the spots often look brittle and crack.	 foliage plant Pseudomonas cichorii

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 foliage plant Rhizoctonia solani

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 foliage plant Thanatephorus cucumeris

TSWV infects a variety of hosts, contributing to its global economic impact on crops. There are over a thousand different hosts for TSWV. The host range of TSWV includes agronomically important crops like tomatoes and tobacco. The symptoms of TSWV vary from host to host. There is also variability of symptoms within a single type of host due to the age of the plant, nutrition and the environment (especially temperature). Common symptoms include stunting, ringspots on fruit and necrosis of leaves. There are many different strains of TSWV, and differences in symptoms may also be attributed to the differences in the number of strains present.	 foliage plant Tomato spotted wilt virus

D. dadantii is phytopathogenic bacterium causing soft rot diseases on many host plants including some which are economically important. D. dadantii, more commonly known as: soft rot, brown rot or blackleg, causes characteristic symptoms associated with other bacterial wilts, causing final diagnosis to be difficult. The pathogen primarily seeks to attack the plant's xylem vessels located in leaves, stems, blossoms and storage organs of herbaceous plants. D. dadantii is able to infect hosts at any point in its life cycle. In addition to symptoms of wilt, the disease appears as sunken and cracked external lesions also having a brown interior in cross section in subterranean bulbs and tubers Diseased plants will display a variety of symptoms including: wilting, stunting and vascular discoloration of the stems. Early symptoms include water soaked lesions at the site of infection, gradually expanding chlorotic leaves and loss of turgor in tissues. The intensity of D. dadantii colonization relates to the amount of disease and degree of damage. The pathogen is very successful at infiltrating host tissues due to the many pectinases responsible for disassembly of plant cell wall polysaccharides. Once the cell wall is degraded cellular structure collapses and this cell maceration gives a characteristic "water-soaked" or rotted appearance. D. dadantii grow intercellularly, continuing to degrade cells and colonize, until it eventually reaches xylem tissues. Upon reaching the xylem vessels D. dadantii possesses the ability to spread to new regions of the host and other areas may begin to display symptoms. Colonization within the xylem restricts flow of water causing loss of turgor pressure and wilting of foliage and stems. Restricted movement of important plant compounds eventually lead to death of the host.	 foliage plant Erwinia chrysanthemi

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 foliage plant Phytophthora nicotianae

Although the common name of Phytophthora palmivora is bud rot of palms, and its Latin name means "plant destroyer" and "palm eater", it affects many tropical plants and has a moderately broad host range. P. palmivora is well studied in coconuts and papaya trees, however there are multiple hosts that are less commonly studied.  One common symptom of P. palmivora is fruit rots which are found in papaya, citrus, coconuts, durian, and cacao. Root rots are another symptom of P. palmivora and can be seen in red maples, citrus, papaya, mango, durian, and black pepper. Another symptom is the presence of cankers which are found in red maple, papaya, rubber, mangos, and cacao. Bud rots can also be seen in papaya and coconuts infected with P. palmivora. Bud rots are also found in Palmyra palms and coconut palms. Collar rots are found on citrus, mango, and black pepper infected with P. palmivora. The signs of P. palmivora are microscopic and can be differentiated from other oomycetes by the presence of oval shaped papillate sporangia with short pedicles and spherical oogonia with narrow stalks (Widmer, 2014).	 foliage plant Phytophthora palmivora

Pseudomonas cichorii is non-host specific as it does not infect just one host. Its host range includes lettuce, pepper, celery, coffee, wheat, basil and several other host plants. Symptoms of the causal agent vary depending on the host and the area of the plant infected. In general, pseudomonas cichorii is seen to cause leaf blighting and spotting. The first appearance of symptoms involves a water soaked lesion that develops at the edge of the leaf, midvein or randomly across the leaf  These lesions progressively turn black or brown and may be surrounded by yellow halos. These lesions also often “coalesce and progress to severe leaf blight under favorable conditions for the bacterium.” When the infected leaves become dry, the spots often look brittle and crack.	 foliage plant Pseudomonas cichorii

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 foliage plant Rhizoctonia solani

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 foliage plant Botryodiplodia theobromae

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 foliage plant Colletotrichum gloeosporioides

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 foliage plant Lasiodiplodia theobromae

Root lesion nematodes infect a great variety of hosts. Pratylenchus penetrans alone has over 350 host plants. They include agricultural crops such as soybeans, potatoes, corn, bananas, and wheat. The genus is found most often in corn. Signs of disease are similar in most plants and generally include necrotic lesions of the roots. The lesions can also be entrances for pathogenic bacteria and fungi, which produce secondary infections. Above ground the plant becomes stunted, chlorotic, and wilted, and it often dies. A crop field may be patchy as plants wither and die. Root lesion nematodes can cause significant yield losses.	 foliage plant Pratylenchus

Radopholus similis parasites can be found in tropical climates, and therefore infect a lot of plants native to tropical areas. Common hosts that are economically important include: banana, coconut, coffee, ginger, sugarcane, ornamentals, and tea. Although R. similis has not been found to infect citrus plants, it is closely related to another variety of burrowing nematodes, Radopholus citrophilus, that is a prominent pathogen to citrus plants. As with a plethora of root diseases, the main symptoms of an infection from burrowing nematodes are stunted growth, rotting roots, and necrotic roots. They are migratory endoparasites, and therefore can cause many localized necrotic patches throughout an infected root system. R. similis signs are generally only seen in the roots, but secondary symptoms such as wilting, weakened structure, and stunting can be caused by the root damage these parasites inflict. In fact, infection via these parasites is referred to as “banana toppling disease” in bananas because the plants often topple due to severe root damage by these nematodes. Prominent symptoms can also vary by host. Black pepper plants often undergo yellowing due to lack of nutrient uptake, ginger plants often become stunted and develop lesions, and tea plants also exhibit stunting and leaf loss.	 foliage plant Radopholus similis

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 foliage plant Rhizoctonia solani

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 foliage plant Phytophthora nicotianae

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 foliage plant Rhizoctonia solani

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 foliage plant Rhizoctonia solani

Bipolaris cactivora is an ascomycete, causing cactus stem rot and pitahaya (dragon fruit) rot. Also known as Drechslera cactivora, this fungus has been reported causing fruit rot on Hylocereus undatus (white-fleshed pitahaya). This specific cactus is both used decoratively as well as commercially in production of pitahaya fruit. The initial symptoms of the disease, appearing two to three days after inoculation, are yellowish lesions that are water soaked, which progress to a brown color. Seven to ten days after initial appearance of lesions, the rot expands to form large areas of rot which grow dark colored spores. The rot then dries, and the plant dies.	 foliage plant Bipolaris cactivora

Plants that are infected with C. cacti often show signs of dying such as yellowing or dying leaves, wilting, stunted growth, and reduced flower production. Because the parasite attacks the roots of the plant it can also lead to root rot and allow for other parasites and various fungi to infest the plant as well.	 foliage plant Cactodera cacti

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 foliage plant Colletotrichum gloeosporioides

Bipolaris cactivora is an ascomycete, causing cactus stem rot and pitahaya (dragon fruit) rot. Also known as Drechslera cactivora, this fungus has been reported causing fruit rot on Hylocereus undatus (white-fleshed pitahaya). This specific cactus is both used decoratively as well as commercially in production of pitahaya fruit. The initial symptoms of the disease, appearing two to three days after inoculation, are yellowish lesions that are water soaked, which progress to a brown color. Seven to ten days after initial appearance of lesions, the rot expands to form large areas of rot which grow dark colored spores. The rot then dries, and the plant dies.	 foliage plant Helminthosporium cactivorum

BMV commonly infects Bromus inermis (see Bromus) and other grasses, can be found almost anywhere wheat is grown. It is also one of the few grass viruses that infects dicotyledonous plants, such as soybean; however, it primarily infects monocotyledonous plants, such as barley and others in the family Gramineae. The diagnostic species of this disease is maize, where seedlings show a variety of symptoms of this diseases, (dpvweb.net). Its propagation species is barley, which displays a mild mosaic. The assay species of this disease is Chenopodium Hybridum, (dpvweb.net). The symptoms of BMV are similar to most mosaic viruses. The symptoms consist of stunted growth, lesions, mosaic leaves, and death, (researchgate.net). These symptoms generally appear around 10 days after germination of the host plant. The symptoms of this disease affect maize and barley plants the most.In 2015, it was found that BMV had coinfected Triticale with Wheat Streak Mosaic Virus. This was the first report of coinfection between those two viruses and raises and the first report of BMV infecting Triticale. This raises questions on whether or not the two viruses share a common vector and how they interact with each other. They are currently researching further into this occurrence (K. Trzmiel, 2015).	 foliage plant Brome mosaic virus

This virus was first characterized in cucumbers (Cucumis sativus) showing mosaic symptoms in 1934, hence the name Cucumber mosaic. Since then, it has been found to infect a great variety of other plants. These include other vegetables such as squash, melons, peppers, eggplants, tomatoes, beans, carrots, celery, lettuce, spinach, beets, many ornamentals and bedding plants, such as Narcissus, and various weeds. Its presence has been confirmed on every continent of the world, including Antarctica.Symptoms seen with this virus include leaf mosaic or mottling (Fig. 1), yellowing, ringspots, stunting, and leaf, flower and fruit distortion. CMV also induces a type of symptom on leaves known as the "shoestring" effect on many host species. This effect causes young leaves to appear narrow and the entire plant to be stunted.Specifically, CMV can cause cucumbers to turn pale and bumpy. The leaves of these plants turn mosaic and their rugosity is often changed, making leaves wrinkled and misshapen. Growth of these plants is usually also stunted and produces few flowers. Often, cucumber fruits are oddly shaped, appear gray, and tested bitter. These appearances lead to them being referred to as "white pickles".Tomato plants are usually stunted and have poorly shaped leaves, or "fernleaf", when infected by CMV. Also certain strains of CMV can cause partial or total crop loss. CMV in peppers causes slightly different symptoms than the previously mentioned. Pepper plants often have severe foliar damage, shown as mosaic and necrotic rings. Often the peppers themselves are misshapen and contain chlorotic rings and spots. In celery, CMV causes streaking and spotting and can be often confused with symptoms of the celery mosaic virus. Symptoms of CMV in lettuce, such as chlorosis, plant stunting and often do not properly head, can be very similar to those of lettuce mosaic virus.CMV has also been identified in a lesser extent to a number of plant species. It is found to be a minor virus infecting Allium crops. The virus infection causes extensive malformation on garlic plants, and mild malformation to severe necrotic streaks on onion leaves. The severe damages on garlic plants and difficulty of aphids transmission of garlic isolate, were possible causal for the rare CMV on garlic. Genetically, the two onion isolates from Turkey (CMV-14.3Po and CMV-15.5Po) are highly similar to others isolated from various plant species in Mediterranean, European, and East Asian countries. CMV was also detected on American beautyberry, an important wildlife and pollinator food source plant native to North America.In plant tissue this virus makes characteristic viral inclusion bodies which can be diagnostic. They are hexagonal in shape (Fig. 2) and stain both in a protein stain and a nucleic acid stain. The inclusions can also be rhomboidal, may appear hollow (Fig. 2) and can form larger aggregates. The inclusions are not uniformly distributed and can be found in epidermal (Fig. 2), mesophyll, and stomatal cells. These inclusions are made up of virus particles.			 foliage plant Cucumber mosaic virus

Plants affected by M. incognita present above ground symptoms of water- and nutrient-stress, yellowing, wilting, and stunting. Below ground galling on roots, bulbs, tubers is the typical symptom. Plant death may occur in high infestation level.	 foliage plant Meloidogyne incognita

Like other plant pathogenic viruses, TMV has a very wide host range and has different effects depending on the host being infected. Tobacco mosaic virus has been known to cause a production loss for flue cured tobacco of up to two percent in North Carolina. It is known to infect members of nine plant families, and at least 125 individual species, including tobacco, tomato, pepper (all members of the useful Solanaceae), cucumbers, a number of ornamental flowers, and beans including Phaseolus vulgaris and Vigna unguiculata. There are many different strains. The first symptom of this virus disease is a light green coloration between the veins of young leaves. This is followed quickly by the development of a "mosaic" or mottled pattern of light and dark green areas in the leaves. Rugosity may also be seen where the infected plant leaves display small localized random wrinkles. These symptoms develop quickly and are more pronounced on younger leaves. Its infection does not result in plant death, but if infection occurs early in the season, plants are stunted. Lower leaves are subjected to "mosaic burn"  especially during periods of hot and dry weather. In these cases, large dead areas develop in the leaves. This constitutes one of the most destructive phases of Tobacco mosaic virus infection. Infected leaves may be crinkled, puckered, or elongated. However, if TMV infects crops like grape and apple, it is almost symptomless. TMV is able  to infect and complete its replication cycle in a plant pathogenic fungus,TMV is able to enter and replicate in cells of C. acutatum, C. clavatum, and C. theobromicola, which may not be an exception, although it has neither been found nor probably searched for in nature.	 foliage plant Tobacco mosaic virus

The foliage of affected tomato plants shows mottling, with alternating yellowish and darker green areas, the latter often appearing thicker and raised giving a blister-like appearance. The leaves tend to be fern-like in appearance with pointed tips and younger leaves may be twisted. The fruit may be distorted, yellow blotches and necrotic spots may occur on both ripe and green fruit and there may be internal browning of the fruit wall. In young plants, the infection reduces the set of fruit and may cause distortions and blemishes. The entire plant may be dwarfed and the flowers discoloured. Environmental conditions influence the symptoms. These include temperature, day length and light intensity as well as the variety, the age of the plant at infection and the virulence of the strain of ToMV.	 foliage plant Tomato mosaic virus

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 foliage plant Glomerella cingulata

Symptoms on leaves appear as slightly sunken spots surrounded by a dark brown edge. The center of the spot may appear pink from the spore masses which are being produced by the fungus. Frequently, large areas on the leaf turn brown, dry out along the leaf margins, and eventually the leaf falls off. Symptoms on fruit also develop as small, discolored, sunken areas that enlarge and develop pink spore masses in the center. Fruits that develop will soft rot and drop off the tree. In chrysanthemum, the fungus will first produce an infection canker near the bottom of the stem after which the fungus most likely disturbes the plant hormonal system causing infected plants to grow taller then uninfected plants. In time, infected chrysanthemum plants will also show very typical blister like leasions on the leaves, making this disease quite easily recognisable.    	 foliage plant Nectriella pironii

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 foliage plant Haematonectria haematococca

INSV has a wide host range and can be found in over 300 plant species including weeds, fruits, vegetables and ornamental crops. Of these, the most severely affected include tomatoes, lettuce, pepper and peppermint as well as most all ornamentals. Symptoms of infection include a downward curling of the leaves, leaf tip dieback, stunting, necrosis of growing leaf tips, sunken ‘chicken pox-like’ spots on leaves (often with a surrounding halo), stem death and yellowing.  Since these symptoms are so generic, extreme caution must be taken when introducing new plants to your greenhouse. Infected plants can not be cured and not all hosts display visible symptoms Western Flower Thrips are extremely hard to remove from their host plants, as they often dig themselves deep into blossoms, buds and other areas hard to reach with insecticides. So, even if plants are sprayed regularly with insecticide, INSV and other insect vectored viruses can not always be ruled out when forming diagnosis.Temperature and host both play an important factor when discussing the symptoms which an INSV infected plant will display. When New Guinea Impatiens are cultivated in an environment varying between 75 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit the host plant will be highly symptomatic. However, when New Guinea Impatiens are grown in an environment just 10 degrees cooler it is unlikely for there to be any observable symptoms of disease.	 foliage plant Impatiens necrotic spot virus

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 foliage plant Phytophthora nicotianae

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 foliage plant Rhizoctonia solani

D. dadantii is phytopathogenic bacterium causing soft rot diseases on many host plants including some which are economically important. D. dadantii, more commonly known as: soft rot, brown rot or blackleg, causes characteristic symptoms associated with other bacterial wilts, causing final diagnosis to be difficult. The pathogen primarily seeks to attack the plant's xylem vessels located in leaves, stems, blossoms and storage organs of herbaceous plants. D. dadantii is able to infect hosts at any point in its life cycle. In addition to symptoms of wilt, the disease appears as sunken and cracked external lesions also having a brown interior in cross section in subterranean bulbs and tubers Diseased plants will display a variety of symptoms including: wilting, stunting and vascular discoloration of the stems. Early symptoms include water soaked lesions at the site of infection, gradually expanding chlorotic leaves and loss of turgor in tissues. The intensity of D. dadantii colonization relates to the amount of disease and degree of damage. The pathogen is very successful at infiltrating host tissues due to the many pectinases responsible for disassembly of plant cell wall polysaccharides. Once the cell wall is degraded cellular structure collapses and this cell maceration gives a characteristic "water-soaked" or rotted appearance. D. dadantii grow intercellularly, continuing to degrade cells and colonize, until it eventually reaches xylem tissues. Upon reaching the xylem vessels D. dadantii possesses the ability to spread to new regions of the host and other areas may begin to display symptoms. Colonization within the xylem restricts flow of water causing loss of turgor pressure and wilting of foliage and stems. Restricted movement of important plant compounds eventually lead to death of the host.	 foliage plant Erwinia chrysanthemi

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 foliage plant Phytophthora nicotianae

Like other plant pathogenic viruses, TMV has a very wide host range and has different effects depending on the host being infected. Tobacco mosaic virus has been known to cause a production loss for flue cured tobacco of up to two percent in North Carolina. It is known to infect members of nine plant families, and at least 125 individual species, including tobacco, tomato, pepper (all members of the useful Solanaceae), cucumbers, a number of ornamental flowers, and beans including Phaseolus vulgaris and Vigna unguiculata. There are many different strains. The first symptom of this virus disease is a light green coloration between the veins of young leaves. This is followed quickly by the development of a "mosaic" or mottled pattern of light and dark green areas in the leaves. Rugosity may also be seen where the infected plant leaves display small localized random wrinkles. These symptoms develop quickly and are more pronounced on younger leaves. Its infection does not result in plant death, but if infection occurs early in the season, plants are stunted. Lower leaves are subjected to "mosaic burn"  especially during periods of hot and dry weather. In these cases, large dead areas develop in the leaves. This constitutes one of the most destructive phases of Tobacco mosaic virus infection. Infected leaves may be crinkled, puckered, or elongated. However, if TMV infects crops like grape and apple, it is almost symptomless. TMV is able  to infect and complete its replication cycle in a plant pathogenic fungus,TMV is able to enter and replicate in cells of C. acutatum, C. clavatum, and C. theobromicola, which may not be an exception, although it has neither been found nor probably searched for in nature.	 foliage plant Tobacco mosaic virus

TSWV infects a variety of hosts, contributing to its global economic impact on crops. There are over a thousand different hosts for TSWV. The host range of TSWV includes agronomically important crops like tomatoes and tobacco. The symptoms of TSWV vary from host to host. There is also variability of symptoms within a single type of host due to the age of the plant, nutrition and the environment (especially temperature). Common symptoms include stunting, ringspots on fruit and necrosis of leaves. There are many different strains of TSWV, and differences in symptoms may also be attributed to the differences in the number of strains present.	 foliage plant Tomato spotted wilt virus

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 foliage plant Alternaria alternata

This virus was first characterized in cucumbers (Cucumis sativus) showing mosaic symptoms in 1934, hence the name Cucumber mosaic. Since then, it has been found to infect a great variety of other plants. These include other vegetables such as squash, melons, peppers, eggplants, tomatoes, beans, carrots, celery, lettuce, spinach, beets, many ornamentals and bedding plants, such as Narcissus, and various weeds. Its presence has been confirmed on every continent of the world, including Antarctica.Symptoms seen with this virus include leaf mosaic or mottling (Fig. 1), yellowing, ringspots, stunting, and leaf, flower and fruit distortion. CMV also induces a type of symptom on leaves known as the "shoestring" effect on many host species. This effect causes young leaves to appear narrow and the entire plant to be stunted.Specifically, CMV can cause cucumbers to turn pale and bumpy. The leaves of these plants turn mosaic and their rugosity is often changed, making leaves wrinkled and misshapen. Growth of these plants is usually also stunted and produces few flowers. Often, cucumber fruits are oddly shaped, appear gray, and tested bitter. These appearances lead to them being referred to as "white pickles".Tomato plants are usually stunted and have poorly shaped leaves, or "fernleaf", when infected by CMV. Also certain strains of CMV can cause partial or total crop loss. CMV in peppers causes slightly different symptoms than the previously mentioned. Pepper plants often have severe foliar damage, shown as mosaic and necrotic rings. Often the peppers themselves are misshapen and contain chlorotic rings and spots. In celery, CMV causes streaking and spotting and can be often confused with symptoms of the celery mosaic virus. Symptoms of CMV in lettuce, such as chlorosis, plant stunting and often do not properly head, can be very similar to those of lettuce mosaic virus.CMV has also been identified in a lesser extent to a number of plant species. It is found to be a minor virus infecting Allium crops. The virus infection causes extensive malformation on garlic plants, and mild malformation to severe necrotic streaks on onion leaves. The severe damages on garlic plants and difficulty of aphids transmission of garlic isolate, were possible causal for the rare CMV on garlic. Genetically, the two onion isolates from Turkey (CMV-14.3Po and CMV-15.5Po) are highly similar to others isolated from various plant species in Mediterranean, European, and East Asian countries. CMV was also detected on American beautyberry, an important wildlife and pollinator food source plant native to North America.In plant tissue this virus makes characteristic viral inclusion bodies which can be diagnostic. They are hexagonal in shape (Fig. 2) and stain both in a protein stain and a nucleic acid stain. The inclusions can also be rhomboidal, may appear hollow (Fig. 2) and can form larger aggregates. The inclusions are not uniformly distributed and can be found in epidermal (Fig. 2), mesophyll, and stomatal cells. These inclusions are made up of virus particles.			 foliage plant Cucumber mosaic virus

Because there are so many different hosts for this pathogen, the symptoms are very variable. Common symptoms include abnormal leaf color, abnormal leaf form, wilting leaves, galls, swollen roots, reduced root system, dwarfing and senescence (Cabi 2018). This pathogen does the most damage when present in light soils with hot weather conditions (Alford 2012).	 foliage plant Meloidogyne javanica

Pseudomonas cichorii is non-host specific as it does not infect just one host. Its host range includes lettuce, pepper, celery, coffee, wheat, basil and several other host plants. Symptoms of the causal agent vary depending on the host and the area of the plant infected. In general, pseudomonas cichorii is seen to cause leaf blighting and spotting. The first appearance of symptoms involves a water soaked lesion that develops at the edge of the leaf, midvein or randomly across the leaf  These lesions progressively turn black or brown and may be surrounded by yellow halos. These lesions also often “coalesce and progress to severe leaf blight under favorable conditions for the bacterium.” When the infected leaves become dry, the spots often look brittle and crack.	 foliage plant Pseudomonas cichorii

Radopholus similis parasites can be found in tropical climates, and therefore infect a lot of plants native to tropical areas. Common hosts that are economically important include: banana, coconut, coffee, ginger, sugarcane, ornamentals, and tea. Although R. similis has not been found to infect citrus plants, it is closely related to another variety of burrowing nematodes, Radopholus citrophilus, that is a prominent pathogen to citrus plants. As with a plethora of root diseases, the main symptoms of an infection from burrowing nematodes are stunted growth, rotting roots, and necrotic roots. They are migratory endoparasites, and therefore can cause many localized necrotic patches throughout an infected root system. R. similis signs are generally only seen in the roots, but secondary symptoms such as wilting, weakened structure, and stunting can be caused by the root damage these parasites inflict. In fact, infection via these parasites is referred to as “banana toppling disease” in bananas because the plants often topple due to severe root damage by these nematodes. Prominent symptoms can also vary by host. Black pepper plants often undergo yellowing due to lack of nutrient uptake, ginger plants often become stunted and develop lesions, and tea plants also exhibit stunting and leaf loss.	 foliage plant Radopholus similis

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 foliage plant Colletotrichum gloeosporioides

Root lesion nematodes infect a great variety of hosts. Pratylenchus penetrans alone has over 350 host plants. They include agricultural crops such as soybeans, potatoes, corn, bananas, and wheat. The genus is found most often in corn. Signs of disease are similar in most plants and generally include necrotic lesions of the roots. The lesions can also be entrances for pathogenic bacteria and fungi, which produce secondary infections. Above ground the plant becomes stunted, chlorotic, and wilted, and it often dies. A crop field may be patchy as plants wither and die. Root lesion nematodes can cause significant yield losses.	 foliage plant Pratylenchus

Pseudomonas cichorii is non-host specific as it does not infect just one host. Its host range includes lettuce, pepper, celery, coffee, wheat, basil and several other host plants. Symptoms of the causal agent vary depending on the host and the area of the plant infected. In general, pseudomonas cichorii is seen to cause leaf blighting and spotting. The first appearance of symptoms involves a water soaked lesion that develops at the edge of the leaf, midvein or randomly across the leaf  These lesions progressively turn black or brown and may be surrounded by yellow halos. These lesions also often “coalesce and progress to severe leaf blight under favorable conditions for the bacterium.” When the infected leaves become dry, the spots often look brittle and crack.	 foliage plant Pseudomonas cichorii

This virus was first characterized in cucumbers (Cucumis sativus) showing mosaic symptoms in 1934, hence the name Cucumber mosaic. Since then, it has been found to infect a great variety of other plants. These include other vegetables such as squash, melons, peppers, eggplants, tomatoes, beans, carrots, celery, lettuce, spinach, beets, many ornamentals and bedding plants, such as Narcissus, and various weeds. Its presence has been confirmed on every continent of the world, including Antarctica.Symptoms seen with this virus include leaf mosaic or mottling (Fig. 1), yellowing, ringspots, stunting, and leaf, flower and fruit distortion. CMV also induces a type of symptom on leaves known as the "shoestring" effect on many host species. This effect causes young leaves to appear narrow and the entire plant to be stunted.Specifically, CMV can cause cucumbers to turn pale and bumpy. The leaves of these plants turn mosaic and their rugosity is often changed, making leaves wrinkled and misshapen. Growth of these plants is usually also stunted and produces few flowers. Often, cucumber fruits are oddly shaped, appear gray, and tested bitter. These appearances lead to them being referred to as "white pickles".Tomato plants are usually stunted and have poorly shaped leaves, or "fernleaf", when infected by CMV. Also certain strains of CMV can cause partial or total crop loss. CMV in peppers causes slightly different symptoms than the previously mentioned. Pepper plants often have severe foliar damage, shown as mosaic and necrotic rings. Often the peppers themselves are misshapen and contain chlorotic rings and spots. In celery, CMV causes streaking and spotting and can be often confused with symptoms of the celery mosaic virus. Symptoms of CMV in lettuce, such as chlorosis, plant stunting and often do not properly head, can be very similar to those of lettuce mosaic virus.CMV has also been identified in a lesser extent to a number of plant species. It is found to be a minor virus infecting Allium crops. The virus infection causes extensive malformation on garlic plants, and mild malformation to severe necrotic streaks on onion leaves. The severe damages on garlic plants and difficulty of aphids transmission of garlic isolate, were possible causal for the rare CMV on garlic. Genetically, the two onion isolates from Turkey (CMV-14.3Po and CMV-15.5Po) are highly similar to others isolated from various plant species in Mediterranean, European, and East Asian countries. CMV was also detected on American beautyberry, an important wildlife and pollinator food source plant native to North America.In plant tissue this virus makes characteristic viral inclusion bodies which can be diagnostic. They are hexagonal in shape (Fig. 2) and stain both in a protein stain and a nucleic acid stain. The inclusions can also be rhomboidal, may appear hollow (Fig. 2) and can form larger aggregates. The inclusions are not uniformly distributed and can be found in epidermal (Fig. 2), mesophyll, and stomatal cells. These inclusions are made up of virus particles.			 foliage plant Cucumber mosaic virus

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 foliage plant Phytophthora nicotianae

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 foliage plant Rhizoctonia solani

In fields, symptomatic plants are recognized in patches or rows.  They appear dwarfed, stunted, and brown in comparison to healthy plants. Local symptoms appear above ground, and plant leaves are typically distorted in shape, crinkled, and discolored with hard surfaces. They often have reduced flower size. Diseased plants typically have dead crowns and a shortened internode of the runners.A classic leaf symptom is the appearance of angular, water-soaked lesions between the veins.  The angular appearance results where the lesion edge and vein meet. In leaves with parallel venation, the length of the lesion progresses parallel to the direction of the vein.  As lesions enlarge and leaf damage progresses, symptomatic leaf edges become dry, dead, and crinkled. Because infected strawberry plants are less vigorous in growth, the stolon does not grow well, which results in reduced fruit size and number.  If the nematodes infect early in plant development, specifically when the buds are forming, the plant morphology will be dwarfed and distorted.Once the nematodes destroy most of the leaf tissue, they leave the plant through wounds and natural openings in the leaf to find a new host to infect. The pathogen is easily transmitted through direct contact between the foliage of infected and non-infected plants.  Nematodes can also move over large distances through soil transportation, as a result of human and animal movement, or through insect and bird travel.	 foliage plant Aphelenchoides fragariae

Root lesion nematodes infect a great variety of hosts. Pratylenchus penetrans alone has over 350 host plants. They include agricultural crops such as soybeans, potatoes, corn, bananas, and wheat. The genus is found most often in corn. Signs of disease are similar in most plants and generally include necrotic lesions of the roots. The lesions can also be entrances for pathogenic bacteria and fungi, which produce secondary infections. Above ground the plant becomes stunted, chlorotic, and wilted, and it often dies. A crop field may be patchy as plants wither and die. Root lesion nematodes can cause significant yield losses.	 foliage plant Pratylenchus

Pseudomonas cichorii is non-host specific as it does not infect just one host. Its host range includes lettuce, pepper, celery, coffee, wheat, basil and several other host plants. Symptoms of the causal agent vary depending on the host and the area of the plant infected. In general, pseudomonas cichorii is seen to cause leaf blighting and spotting. The first appearance of symptoms involves a water soaked lesion that develops at the edge of the leaf, midvein or randomly across the leaf  These lesions progressively turn black or brown and may be surrounded by yellow halos. These lesions also often “coalesce and progress to severe leaf blight under favorable conditions for the bacterium.” When the infected leaves become dry, the spots often look brittle and crack.	 foliage plant Pseudomonas cichorii

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 foliage plant Rhizoctonia solani

Colletotrichum capsici has a broad host range but prefers peppers, yams and eggplants. On chili peppers, Capsicum annuum L., C. capsici infect the stem, fruit, and leaves of the plant, causing anthracnose, die-back and ripe fruit rot. C. capsici infection tends to infect ripe red fruit and lead to the development of brown necrotic lesions containing concentric acervuli that will eventually appear black from the setae and sclerotia (Srinivasan, Vijayalakshmi Kothandaraman, Vaikuntavasan, & Rethinasamy, 2014). Additionally, the fruit content of capsaicin and oleoresin is reduced, which results in a decrease of its medicinal potency (Madhavan, Paranidharan, & Velazhahan, 2016).	 foliage plant Colletotrichum capsici

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 foliage plant Phytophthora nicotianae

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 foliage plant Rhizoctonia solani

Armillaria mellea typically infects hardwood trees and conifers but sometimes will infect non-woody monocots and a few herbaceous plants. There are few signs, and the ones that do exist are often hard to find. The most prominent sign is honey-colored mushrooms at the base of the infected plant. Additional signs include white, fan-shaped mycelia and black rhizomorphs with diameters between 1/32nd of an inch and 1/8th of an inch. These usually are not as noticeable because they occur beneath the bark and in the soil, respectively. The symptoms are much more numerous, including slower growth, dieback of branches, yellowing foliage, rotted wood at base and/or roots, external cankers, cracking bark, bleeding stem, leaf wilting, defoliation, and rapid death. Leaf wilting, defoliation, and dieback occur after the destruction of the cambium.	 fuchsia Armillaria mellea

INSV has a wide host range and can be found in over 300 plant species including weeds, fruits, vegetables and ornamental crops. Of these, the most severely affected include tomatoes, lettuce, pepper and peppermint as well as most all ornamentals. Symptoms of infection include a downward curling of the leaves, leaf tip dieback, stunting, necrosis of growing leaf tips, sunken ‘chicken pox-like’ spots on leaves (often with a surrounding halo), stem death and yellowing.  Since these symptoms are so generic, extreme caution must be taken when introducing new plants to your greenhouse. Infected plants can not be cured and not all hosts display visible symptoms Western Flower Thrips are extremely hard to remove from their host plants, as they often dig themselves deep into blossoms, buds and other areas hard to reach with insecticides. So, even if plants are sprayed regularly with insecticide, INSV and other insect vectored viruses can not always be ruled out when forming diagnosis.Temperature and host both play an important factor when discussing the symptoms which an INSV infected plant will display. When New Guinea Impatiens are cultivated in an environment varying between 75 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit the host plant will be highly symptomatic. However, when New Guinea Impatiens are grown in an environment just 10 degrees cooler it is unlikely for there to be any observable symptoms of disease.	 fuchsia Impatiens necrotic spot virus

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 fuchsia Phytophthora nicotianae

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 fuchsia Rhizoctonia solani

TSWV infects a variety of hosts, contributing to its global economic impact on crops. There are over a thousand different hosts for TSWV. The host range of TSWV includes agronomically important crops like tomatoes and tobacco. The symptoms of TSWV vary from host to host. There is also variability of symptoms within a single type of host due to the age of the plant, nutrition and the environment (especially temperature). Common symptoms include stunting, ringspots on fruit and necrosis of leaves. There are many different strains of TSWV, and differences in symptoms may also be attributed to the differences in the number of strains present.	 fuchsia Tomato spotted wilt virus

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 geranium Alternaria alternata

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 geranium Alternaria tenuis

In fields, symptomatic plants are recognized in patches or rows.  They appear dwarfed, stunted, and brown in comparison to healthy plants. Local symptoms appear above ground, and plant leaves are typically distorted in shape, crinkled, and discolored with hard surfaces. They often have reduced flower size. Diseased plants typically have dead crowns and a shortened internode of the runners.A classic leaf symptom is the appearance of angular, water-soaked lesions between the veins.  The angular appearance results where the lesion edge and vein meet. In leaves with parallel venation, the length of the lesion progresses parallel to the direction of the vein.  As lesions enlarge and leaf damage progresses, symptomatic leaf edges become dry, dead, and crinkled. Because infected strawberry plants are less vigorous in growth, the stolon does not grow well, which results in reduced fruit size and number.  If the nematodes infect early in plant development, specifically when the buds are forming, the plant morphology will be dwarfed and distorted.Once the nematodes destroy most of the leaf tissue, they leave the plant through wounds and natural openings in the leaf to find a new host to infect. The pathogen is easily transmitted through direct contact between the foliage of infected and non-infected plants.  Nematodes can also move over large distances through soil transportation, as a result of human and animal movement, or through insect and bird travel.	 geranium Aphelenchoides fragariae

While it is common for the hosts not to show any symptoms of the pathogens influence, there are some symptoms that can occur in the hosts. The most prevalent symptoms of the ArMV are stunting of the plant and leaf flecking/molting and leaf enations. The symptoms will vary based on the type of rootstock, environmental conditions and variety.	 geranium Arabis mosaic virus

Armillaria mellea typically infects hardwood trees and conifers but sometimes will infect non-woody monocots and a few herbaceous plants. There are few signs, and the ones that do exist are often hard to find. The most prominent sign is honey-colored mushrooms at the base of the infected plant. Additional signs include white, fan-shaped mycelia and black rhizomorphs with diameters between 1/32nd of an inch and 1/8th of an inch. These usually are not as noticeable because they occur beneath the bark and in the soil, respectively. The symptoms are much more numerous, including slower growth, dieback of branches, yellowing foliage, rotted wood at base and/or roots, external cankers, cracking bark, bleeding stem, leaf wilting, defoliation, and rapid death. Leaf wilting, defoliation, and dieback occur after the destruction of the cambium.	 geranium Armillaria mellea

Hosts species include wheat, barley, oats, rye, triticale, turfgrasses and many other grass species found throughout the world.  Symptoms are found on lower leaves early in the season and upper leaves later in the season.  Lesions are usually elliptical and are initially chlorotic.  Later, they develop a brown margin with a white center and split longitudinally. Pycnidia can be found within the lesions are generally black in color.	 geranium Ascochyta

Plants that are infected will tend to display early symptoms within 5 days. The BCTV causes many symptoms including:Vein swelling (the earliest and most common symptom)Leaf curlingYellowing of leaves with purple veinsNecrosis and hyperplasia of the phloemFruit deformationPremature fruit ripeningReduced fruit quality and yieldStuntingDeath of young seedlings	 geranium Beet curly top virus

Botryosphaeria ribis is an ascomycete plant pathogen that primarily affects woody hosts in a number of temperate and tropical regions. The susceptible hosts include a number of economically important plants such as apple, peach, almond, banana, and walnut trees, among others.  The disease is noted by cankers, leaf spots, and necrosis, as well as twig dieback. On healthy leaves, the necrosis begins apically at the margins, extending back along the midrib, occasionally reaching the base and causing complete blight of the leaf.  Twig dieback also starts apically and works towards the center of the plant.  It is characterized by a slow necrosis of the branch, leaving large, dead limbs on the upper portions of trees.  Under the microscope, it can be identified by its immersed, pyriform perithecia (pear-shaped, spore-containing structures), which have a brown exterior wall.  The ascospores within the perithecia are ellipsoid in shape, with a smooth exterior and granular cytoplasm.  The anamorph (asexual stage) of B. ribis is Fusicoccum ribis, and although less abundant, it is characterized by globose pycnidia containing smooth, hyaline macro- and microconidia.  These symptoms have the potential to significantly decrease yield or kill the host.	 geranium Botryosphaeria ribis

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 geranium Colletotrichum gloeosporioides

This virus was first characterized in cucumbers (Cucumis sativus) showing mosaic symptoms in 1934, hence the name Cucumber mosaic. Since then, it has been found to infect a great variety of other plants. These include other vegetables such as squash, melons, peppers, eggplants, tomatoes, beans, carrots, celery, lettuce, spinach, beets, many ornamentals and bedding plants, such as Narcissus, and various weeds. Its presence has been confirmed on every continent of the world, including Antarctica.Symptoms seen with this virus include leaf mosaic or mottling (Fig. 1), yellowing, ringspots, stunting, and leaf, flower and fruit distortion. CMV also induces a type of symptom on leaves known as the "shoestring" effect on many host species. This effect causes young leaves to appear narrow and the entire plant to be stunted.Specifically, CMV can cause cucumbers to turn pale and bumpy. The leaves of these plants turn mosaic and their rugosity is often changed, making leaves wrinkled and misshapen. Growth of these plants is usually also stunted and produces few flowers. Often, cucumber fruits are oddly shaped, appear gray, and tested bitter. These appearances lead to them being referred to as "white pickles".Tomato plants are usually stunted and have poorly shaped leaves, or "fernleaf", when infected by CMV. Also certain strains of CMV can cause partial or total crop loss. CMV in peppers causes slightly different symptoms than the previously mentioned. Pepper plants often have severe foliar damage, shown as mosaic and necrotic rings. Often the peppers themselves are misshapen and contain chlorotic rings and spots. In celery, CMV causes streaking and spotting and can be often confused with symptoms of the celery mosaic virus. Symptoms of CMV in lettuce, such as chlorosis, plant stunting and often do not properly head, can be very similar to those of lettuce mosaic virus.CMV has also been identified in a lesser extent to a number of plant species. It is found to be a minor virus infecting Allium crops. The virus infection causes extensive malformation on garlic plants, and mild malformation to severe necrotic streaks on onion leaves. The severe damages on garlic plants and difficulty of aphids transmission of garlic isolate, were possible causal for the rare CMV on garlic. Genetically, the two onion isolates from Turkey (CMV-14.3Po and CMV-15.5Po) are highly similar to others isolated from various plant species in Mediterranean, European, and East Asian countries. CMV was also detected on American beautyberry, an important wildlife and pollinator food source plant native to North America.In plant tissue this virus makes characteristic viral inclusion bodies which can be diagnostic. They are hexagonal in shape (Fig. 2) and stain both in a protein stain and a nucleic acid stain. The inclusions can also be rhomboidal, may appear hollow (Fig. 2) and can form larger aggregates. The inclusions are not uniformly distributed and can be found in epidermal (Fig. 2), mesophyll, and stomatal cells. These inclusions are made up of virus particles.			 geranium Cucumber mosaic virus

Erysiphe cruciferarum exhibits typical powdery mildew characteristics, appearing as small radiating, diffuse colonies of superficial white mycelium on the surface of the leaf; usually both sides of the leaf show white, powdery fungal growth. Additional signs of the pathogen would be that its conidia are singly produced (not in chains) and are ovoid to cylindrical in shape, ranging from 42.5–57 µm × 14.5–20.5 µm in size. Also, E. cruciferarum has rather variable appressoria, differing from lobed to simple, and haustoria that are multilobed. Severe, advanced infections produce a dense white powdery covering of leaves, stems, and seed crop pods. On cauliflower and cabbage, heavily diseased plants show chlorosis, early defoliation, and necrosis of the tips of young leaves. Colonies may be gray and restricted in size on resistant cultivars as the host reaction produces black speckling beneath the colony. On Brussels sprout, gray or purple symptoms occur on the stems, while on the sprouts there may be white colonies or fine black speckling in radiating lines.Disease diagnosis is determined on the basis of anamorph morphology and host.	 geranium Erysiphe communis

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 geranium Glomerella cingulata

INSV has a wide host range and can be found in over 300 plant species including weeds, fruits, vegetables and ornamental crops. Of these, the most severely affected include tomatoes, lettuce, pepper and peppermint as well as most all ornamentals. Symptoms of infection include a downward curling of the leaves, leaf tip dieback, stunting, necrosis of growing leaf tips, sunken ‘chicken pox-like’ spots on leaves (often with a surrounding halo), stem death and yellowing.  Since these symptoms are so generic, extreme caution must be taken when introducing new plants to your greenhouse. Infected plants can not be cured and not all hosts display visible symptoms Western Flower Thrips are extremely hard to remove from their host plants, as they often dig themselves deep into blossoms, buds and other areas hard to reach with insecticides. So, even if plants are sprayed regularly with insecticide, INSV and other insect vectored viruses can not always be ruled out when forming diagnosis.Temperature and host both play an important factor when discussing the symptoms which an INSV infected plant will display. When New Guinea Impatiens are cultivated in an environment varying between 75 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit the host plant will be highly symptomatic. However, when New Guinea Impatiens are grown in an environment just 10 degrees cooler it is unlikely for there to be any observable symptoms of disease.	 geranium Impatiens necrotic spot virus

These nematodes cause symptoms both on leaves and roots. Foliar symptoms of root-knot disease may be expressed at any time during the growing season. These symptoms of nematode damage on peanut plants range from stunting, yellowing, wilting and even plant death.  Ferris (1999–2012), also reported that nematodes cause yellowing; mid-day wilting; symptoms of water and nutrient stress; and sometimes death, especially if the nematode is interacting with other organisms.  They can appear in a peanut crop beginning about 100 days after planting or after periods of dry hot weather.  Areas of root-knot nematode damaged peanut are usually round to oblong in shape, and rows of infected plants may never overlap as those of healthy plants. It is common for plants to wilt and eventually die in areas where nematode populations are high.Root symptoms are similar to those caused by all nematodes including a reduction in number of feeder roots and root stunting, but root knot nematodes cause unique symptoms on roots and pods. Nematodes cause galls (knots) to form on both roots and pods of the peanut, and these galls are highly diagnostic for root-knot nematode presence compared to other nematodes affecting peanut. The presence of galls on roots, pegs and pods appears as single or multiple wart-like growths that may or may not be discolored. As root knot nematode infection progresses, and generally later in the season, secondary root and pod rots cause further damage and eventual death of the plants.Many soil-borne fungi, especially Sclerotium rolfsii (which causes southern stem rot) and Sclerotinia minor (which causes Sclerotinia blight), will infect the weakened peanut plants and cause more plant death. Root knot nematode infection of the peg weakens the peg so that it breaks during harvest, contributing to additional yield losses because the detached pods are then left in the soil. Infection of the pods leads to a decline in yield quality.The damage threshold, or the initial nematode population density at which peanut yields begin to decline, has been reported to be in the range of 1 to 10 eggs and second stage juveniles per 500 cm3 soil for M. arenaria on susceptible peanut cultivars.	 geranium Meloidogyne arenaria

Meloidogyne hapla (Northern root-knot nematode) has a wide host range. It is polyphagous and affects over 550 crops and weeds. It feeds on many agricultural and horticultural plants (vegetables, fruits, ornamentals), but few grasses or cereals. A list of known hosts can be found at the bottom of this page.Symptoms can be seen in the roots, leaves, and the overall growth of the infected plant. In roots, there may be stunting, wilting, and the formation of abnormal growths called galls. Galls are usually small and spherical and are situated near many small roots. They are formed when the nematode enters the root and releases chemicals to enlarge root cells, on which they feed. The roots become defective and therefore cannot transport water and nutrients properly. The end result is stunted, wilted, and yellowing plants (characteristic of nutrient deficiency) and a decreased yield. Severity of the symptoms depends on nematode population density and host plant species and cultivar. As the number of nematodes increase in the area, the number and size of root galls increase as well. Each crop responds to Meloidogyne hapla differently. Carrots typically undergo severe forking with galling of the roots, lettuce have beadlike galls, and grasses and onions have small and barely noticeable galls and symptoms. In potato tubers (special stems), brown spots will appear on areas of the tubers where the females have laid their eggs.If a field has a patchy distribution of symptoms, it usually indicates the presence of nematodes. Most nematodes are not usually distributed uniformly in the soil. To correctly identify Meloidogyne hapla, the infected plant should be sent to a lab for a proper diagnosis. One common method is perineal pattern analysis where the perineum of the female nematode (area between the anus and the vulva) is examined for a specific pattern in ridges and annulations. Another common method is analyzing isozyme (different variations of the same enzyme produced by different genes) electrophoretic profiles using esterase and malate dehydrogenase.	 geranium Meloidogyne hapla

Plants affected by M. incognita present above ground symptoms of water- and nutrient-stress, yellowing, wilting, and stunting. Below ground galling on roots, bulbs, tubers is the typical symptom. Plant death may occur in high infestation level.	 geranium Meloidogyne incognita

Pseudomonas cichorii is non-host specific as it does not infect just one host. Its host range includes lettuce, pepper, celery, coffee, wheat, basil and several other host plants. Symptoms of the causal agent vary depending on the host and the area of the plant infected. In general, pseudomonas cichorii is seen to cause leaf blighting and spotting. The first appearance of symptoms involves a water soaked lesion that develops at the edge of the leaf, midvein or randomly across the leaf  These lesions progressively turn black or brown and may be surrounded by yellow halos. These lesions also often “coalesce and progress to severe leaf blight under favorable conditions for the bacterium.” When the infected leaves become dry, the spots often look brittle and crack.	 geranium Pseudomonas cichorii

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 geranium Rhizoctonia solani

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 geranium Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 geranium Thanatephorus cucumeris

Like other plant pathogenic viruses, TMV has a very wide host range and has different effects depending on the host being infected. Tobacco mosaic virus has been known to cause a production loss for flue cured tobacco of up to two percent in North Carolina. It is known to infect members of nine plant families, and at least 125 individual species, including tobacco, tomato, pepper (all members of the useful Solanaceae), cucumbers, a number of ornamental flowers, and beans including Phaseolus vulgaris and Vigna unguiculata. There are many different strains. The first symptom of this virus disease is a light green coloration between the veins of young leaves. This is followed quickly by the development of a "mosaic" or mottled pattern of light and dark green areas in the leaves. Rugosity may also be seen where the infected plant leaves display small localized random wrinkles. These symptoms develop quickly and are more pronounced on younger leaves. Its infection does not result in plant death, but if infection occurs early in the season, plants are stunted. Lower leaves are subjected to "mosaic burn"  especially during periods of hot and dry weather. In these cases, large dead areas develop in the leaves. This constitutes one of the most destructive phases of Tobacco mosaic virus infection. Infected leaves may be crinkled, puckered, or elongated. However, if TMV infects crops like grape and apple, it is almost symptomless. TMV is able  to infect and complete its replication cycle in a plant pathogenic fungus,TMV is able to enter and replicate in cells of C. acutatum, C. clavatum, and C. theobromicola, which may not be an exception, although it has neither been found nor probably searched for in nature.	 geranium Tobacco mosaic virus

Boning  first discovered Tobacco Rattle Virus in 1931 in Germany.  It was discovered in Nicotiana tabacum, which is a species of cultivated tobacco.   Tobacco Rattle Virus is common and potentially serious in a variety of herbaceous ornamentals including, but not limited to, astilbe, bleeding heart, coral bells, daffodil, epimedium, gladiolus, hyacinth, marigold, tulip and vinca.  Tobacco rattle can also affect vegetable crops such as beans, beets, peppers, potatoes, and spinach.  On potatoes, the disease is referred to as corky ring spot. The disease corky ringspot of potatoes was first reported in the United States in 1946, and was identified incorrectly as a novel virus until advances in genetics demonstrated it to be the result of TRV.Symptoms of Tobacco Rattle Virus vary based on the plant host, which differs widely in this disease.  Common symptoms include mottling, chlorotic or necrotic local lesion, ringspots or line patterns, and systemic necrosis.	 geranium Tobacco rattle virus

There are many strains of Verticillium dahliae which are categorized into vegetative compatibility groups (VCG). These groups comprise strains that are able to exchange genetic material via anastomosis. Each VCG affects a few or only one host and the virulence of the pathogen varies by host. While individual V. dahliae strains are relatively host specific, as a species it has a wide range.Verticillium dahliae has a very wide host range, affecting over 300 plant species. Some susceptible crops include Brussels sprouts, cabbage, eggplant, cucumbers, mint, pepper, potatoes, pumpkin, spinach, tomato, watermelon, honeydew, and cantaloupe. Of these, tomato, potato, and eggplant have resistant or tolerant varieties.Symptoms of this disease are seen throughout the plant. Leaves may have abnormal coloration, necrotic areas, wilt, and/or fall off the plant. The stem may have discolored vascular tissue, exhibit rosetting (shortened internodes of the plant caused by reduced growth, resulting in a rosette-like appearance), and/or be stunted. Early senescence and dieback may also occur.Microsclerotia can be seen under a lens as small black structures in the vasculature of living and dead plants. This feature can be used to distinguish V. dahliae from V. albo-atrum, the other verticillium wilt pathogen.	 geranium Verticillium dahliae

The symptoms that plants exhibit in response to the pathogenicity of Xiphinema americanum are similar to those of other migratory ectoparasitic nematodes of roots. It is common to see poor growth and or stunting of the plant, yellowing or wilting of the foliage, and reduced root systems which can include root necrosis, lack of feeder or secondary roots, and occasional tufts of stubby rootlets.Young, shortleaved yellow pine trees with moderate swelling of roots with clusters of short, stubby branches were the first demonstration of X. americanum pathogenicity in 1955. X. americanum can also cause severe effects on foliage, sometimes causing chlorosis and complete defoliation as seen on Guatemalan coffee trees. The dagger nematode causes the devitalization of root tips and overall root death when they feed at the root tips and root sides of strawberry plants. Reddish-brown lesions that turn black and necrotic with time result at the sites of feeding, and result in reduced root systems and stunted tops.Xiphinema americanum is listed as a C-rated pest in California due to its wide host range of California crops. C-rated pests are widespread, and are of known economic or environmental detriment, according to The California Department of Food and Agriculture. Due to X. americanum's difficulty in maintaining high populations in frequently tilled soils (see Control), the dagger nematode is mainly an economic problem on biennial and perennial crops rather than annual crops (except for damage to emerging seedlings).	 geranium Xiphinema americanum

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 grape Alternaria alternata

While it is common for the hosts not to show any symptoms of the pathogens influence, there are some symptoms that can occur in the hosts. The most prevalent symptoms of the ArMV are stunting of the plant and leaf flecking/molting and leaf enations. The symptoms will vary based on the type of rootstock, environmental conditions and variety.	 grape Arabis mosaic virus

Armillaria mellea typically infects hardwood trees and conifers but sometimes will infect non-woody monocots and a few herbaceous plants. There are few signs, and the ones that do exist are often hard to find. The most prominent sign is honey-colored mushrooms at the base of the infected plant. Additional signs include white, fan-shaped mycelia and black rhizomorphs with diameters between 1/32nd of an inch and 1/8th of an inch. These usually are not as noticeable because they occur beneath the bark and in the soil, respectively. The symptoms are much more numerous, including slower growth, dieback of branches, yellowing foliage, rotted wood at base and/or roots, external cankers, cracking bark, bleeding stem, leaf wilting, defoliation, and rapid death. Leaf wilting, defoliation, and dieback occur after the destruction of the cambium.	 grape Armillaria mellea

Relatively small, brown circular lesions develop on infected leaves and within a few days tiny black spherical fruiting bodies (pycnidia) protrude from them. Elongated black lesions on the petiole may eventually girdle these organs, causing the affected leaves to wilt. Shoot infection results in large black elliptical lesions. These lesions may contribute to breakage of shoots by wind, or in severe cases, may girdle and kill young shoots altogether. This fungus bides its time. Most plants show very little signs of infection until it's too late. They will look very healthy until fruit sets. Even flowering will be normal. Infection of the fruit is the most serious phase of the disease and may result in substantial economic loss. Infected berries first appear light or chocolate brown; it will have a spot that looks very round, like the eye of a bird. That spot will get larger and infect more of the fruit bunch and more of the plant. This creates masses of black pycnidia developing on the surface. Finally, infected berries shrivel and turn into hard black raisin-like bodies that are called mummies.	 grape Black rot (grape disease)

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 grape Botryosphaeria rhodina

Colletotrichum acutatum has a broad host range, but is most important in strawberries. C.  acutatum on strawberries. The pathogen causes black spot of fruit, but can also be seen attacking the plant at its crowns, roots and leaves. After planting, stunting and yellowing as well as wilting may occur. General symptoms of the disease in other plants can also be seen on flowers, petioles, and roots.  Stems are also a prominent place to see symptoms. Lesions on the stem can appear dark colored, oval shaped, and possibly have immersed spots located on petioles and runners.  Once C.acutatum infects these parts of the plant, it can cause other diseases to unfold such as crown root rot, defoliation, bloom blight and fruit rot. Unfortunately, the most significant loss can be seen once the fruit is attacked. If the fruit is infected it will develop small brown spots (green fruit) or black spots (red fruit) and can expand throughout the fruits’ surface.	 grape Colletotrichum acutatum

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 grape Colletotrichum gloeosporioides

Phomopsis cane and leaf spot is a disease that causes symptoms in the common grapevine species, Vitis vinifera, in many regions of the world. This disease is mainly caused by the fungal pathogen, Phomopsis viticola, and is known to affect many cultivars of table grapes, such as Thompson Seedless, Red Globe, and Flame Seedless. Also in vines of oenological interest, such as Cabernet Sauvignon, Zinfandel, Syrah, Barbera, Chardonnay and Merlot. Spots or lesions on shoots and leaves are common symptoms of the disease. Small, black spots on the internodes at the base of developing shoots are probably the most common disease symptom. These spots are usually found on the first three to four basal internodes. The spots may develop into elliptical lesions that may grow together to form irregular, black, crusty areas. Under severe conditions, shoots may split and form longitudinal cracks. Although cane lesions often appear to result in little damage to the vines, it is important to remember that these lesions are the primary source of overwintering inoculum for the next growing season. Leaf infections first appear as small, light-green spots with irregular, occasionally star-shaped margins. Usually only the lower one to four leaves on a shoot are affected. In time, the spots become larger, turn black, and have a yellow margin . Leaves become distorted and die if large numbers of lesions develop. Infections of leaf petioles may cause leaves to turn yellow and fall off. All parts of the grape cluster (berries and rachises or cluster stems) are susceptible to infection throughout the growing season; however, most infections appear to occur early in the growing season. Lesions developing on the first one or two cluster stems (rachises) on a shoot may result in premature withering of the cluster stem. Infected clusters that survive until harvest often produce infected or poor-quality fruit. Soil moisture and temperature can impact the severity of symptoms, leading to a systemic infection in warm and wet conditions.	 grape Dead arm of grapevine

Initial symptoms include large, angular or blocky, yellow areas visible on the upper surface. As lesions mature, they expand rapidly and turn brown. The under surface of infected leaves appears watersoaked. Upon closer inspection, a purple-brown mold (see arrow) becomes apparent. Small spores shaped like footballs can be observed among the mold with a 10x hand lens. In disease-favorable conditions (cool nights with long dew periods), downy mildew will spread rapidly, destroying leaf tissue without affecting stems or petioles.	 grape Downy mildew

E. ampelina affects two species of Rubus and three species of Vitis. Specifically, E. ampelina affects blackberries, raspberries, mountain grapes, fox or concord grapes, and the European wine grape. Anthracnose diseases can cause disease on a variety of plants, but the primary host for E. ampelina, is grape.Anthracnose on grape presents itself as lesions on shoots, leaves, and berries. Lesions will first appear on young shoots, showing up as small circular reddish spots that will later become larger and create grey lesions which appear sunken. The lesions will eventually develop margins that are a dark reddish-brown to violet-black color. If left untreated, lesions on shoots will become larger and eventually kill the shoot. While these lesions may be very apparent and easy to identify, they can sometimes be confused for hail damage. Hail damage typically appears on only one side of the plants.  Also, anthracnose lesions will have darker and more raised edge.Anthracnose lesions on leaves and petioles look very similar to those on shoots. However, on leaves, the lesions will have dry grey or white centers that will eventually fall off, leaving a hole. This response by the plant is called a shot-hole. Should the lesions spread and the infection make it into the vascular system of the leaf, the anthracnose will prevent the proper development of the leaf and will lead to malformation or to the drying of the leaf.Grape vines are susceptible to anthracnose before flowering all the way through fruit soften and coloration. Essentially, the berries are susceptible to the pathogen throughout the growing season. Anthracnose presents itself on the berries as small reddish circles, around a quarter inch in diameter, that will become sunken with a narrow dark brown to black border. Eventually, the center of the lesion will change color from violet to white or grey and become velvety. These lesions often look like a shooting target or bullseye. Should the disease spread to and affect the pulp of the berry, it will cause cracking, which opens the berry to secondary infections.	 grape Elsinoë ampelina

The incubation period between infection and obvious symptoms is usually one year or more, depending on the response of the plant to both pathogen and environmental circumstances. Flavescence dorée has the following symptoms:leaves become yellow or red, depending on the varietydownward rolling of leavesdrying of stems and grapesthere is no cold hardeningSome plants affected with Flavescence dorée may die, some may be asymptomatic while some, depending on the grapevine variety, can recover in a process currently not completely understood. The S titanus can not get the Flavescence dorée from recovered and asymptomatic plants.	 grape Flavescence dorée

Red blotch presents with both foliar and fruit symptoms. Foliar symptoms typically begin appearing in mid-summer as irregular blotches on leaf blades at the base of infected grapevines. Over time, the blotches spread upward from the base to the top of the grapevine canopy. In red grape varieties, the blotches are red; in white grape varieties, the blotches may be pale green to pale yellow.Red blotch disease results in delayed berry ripening, altered berry color, and a smaller berry size. It adversely affects pH, anthocyanin levels, tannin levels, and other phenolic factors that reduce the quality and market value of wine made from affected grapes. Sugar accumulation may be significantly reduced, typically dropping by 3 degrees Brix and dropping by as much as 6 degrees Brix in some varieties. Premium wine producers in California estimate that a 100% red blotch infection can reduce the value of a vineyard by as much as $68,000 per acre.Research indicates that red blotch is not a new disease, but has been overlooked until its discovery at UC Davis in 2008 because its symptoms appear similar to those of grapevine leafroll disease. There are two key symptomatic differences between the diseases. While both diseases result in abnormal red coloring on affected grapevine leaves, leafroll affected leaves only turn red in and around the secondary veins of the grapevine leaf; red blotch affected leaves turn red in both the primary and secondary veins as well as in the interveinal zones. Secondly, unlike with leafroll, leaves affected by red blotch do not typically roll inwards at their edges. Symptoms of red blotch may also be mistaken for plant stress or nutritional deficiencies.	 grape Grapevine red blotch

Red blotch presents with both foliar and fruit symptoms. Foliar symptoms typically begin appearing in mid-summer as irregular blotches on leaf blades at the base of infected grapevines. Over time, the blotches spread upward from the base to the top of the grapevine canopy. In red grape varieties, the blotches are red; in white grape varieties, the blotches may be pale green to pale yellow.Red blotch disease results in delayed berry ripening, altered berry color, and a smaller berry size. It adversely affects pH, anthocyanin levels, tannin levels, and other phenolic factors that reduce the quality and market value of wine made from affected grapes. Sugar accumulation may be significantly reduced, typically dropping by 3 degrees Brix and dropping by as much as 6 degrees Brix in some varieties. Premium wine producers in California estimate that a 100% red blotch infection can reduce the value of a vineyard by as much as $68,000 per acre.Research indicates that red blotch is not a new disease, but has been overlooked until its discovery at UC Davis in 2008 because its symptoms appear similar to those of grapevine leafroll disease. There are two key symptomatic differences between the diseases. While both diseases result in abnormal red coloring on affected grapevine leaves, leafroll affected leaves only turn red in and around the secondary veins of the grapevine leaf; red blotch affected leaves turn red in both the primary and secondary veins as well as in the interveinal zones. Secondly, unlike with leafroll, leaves affected by red blotch do not typically roll inwards at their edges. Symptoms of red blotch may also be mistaken for plant stress or nutritional deficiencies.	 grape Grapevine red blotch-associated virus

Relatively small, brown circular lesions develop on infected leaves and within a few days tiny black spherical fruiting bodies (pycnidia) protrude from them. Elongated black lesions on the petiole may eventually girdle these organs, causing the affected leaves to wilt. Shoot infection results in large black elliptical lesions. These lesions may contribute to breakage of shoots by wind, or in severe cases, may girdle and kill young shoots altogether. This fungus bides its time. Most plants show very little signs of infection until it's too late. They will look very healthy until fruit sets. Even flowering will be normal. Infection of the fruit is the most serious phase of the disease and may result in substantial economic loss. Infected berries first appear light or chocolate brown; it will have a spot that looks very round, like the eye of a bird. That spot will get larger and infect more of the fruit bunch and more of the plant. This creates masses of black pycnidia developing on the surface. Finally, infected berries shrivel and turn into hard black raisin-like bodies that are called mummies.	 grape Guignardia bidwellii

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 grape Lasiodiplodia theobromae

These nematodes cause symptoms both on leaves and roots. Foliar symptoms of root-knot disease may be expressed at any time during the growing season. These symptoms of nematode damage on peanut plants range from stunting, yellowing, wilting and even plant death.  Ferris (1999–2012), also reported that nematodes cause yellowing; mid-day wilting; symptoms of water and nutrient stress; and sometimes death, especially if the nematode is interacting with other organisms.  They can appear in a peanut crop beginning about 100 days after planting or after periods of dry hot weather.  Areas of root-knot nematode damaged peanut are usually round to oblong in shape, and rows of infected plants may never overlap as those of healthy plants. It is common for plants to wilt and eventually die in areas where nematode populations are high.Root symptoms are similar to those caused by all nematodes including a reduction in number of feeder roots and root stunting, but root knot nematodes cause unique symptoms on roots and pods. Nematodes cause galls (knots) to form on both roots and pods of the peanut, and these galls are highly diagnostic for root-knot nematode presence compared to other nematodes affecting peanut. The presence of galls on roots, pegs and pods appears as single or multiple wart-like growths that may or may not be discolored. As root knot nematode infection progresses, and generally later in the season, secondary root and pod rots cause further damage and eventual death of the plants.Many soil-borne fungi, especially Sclerotium rolfsii (which causes southern stem rot) and Sclerotinia minor (which causes Sclerotinia blight), will infect the weakened peanut plants and cause more plant death. Root knot nematode infection of the peg weakens the peg so that it breaks during harvest, contributing to additional yield losses because the detached pods are then left in the soil. Infection of the pods leads to a decline in yield quality.The damage threshold, or the initial nematode population density at which peanut yields begin to decline, has been reported to be in the range of 1 to 10 eggs and second stage juveniles per 500 cm3 soil for M. arenaria on susceptible peanut cultivars.	 grape Meloidogyne arenaria

Plants affected by M. incognita present above ground symptoms of water- and nutrient-stress, yellowing, wilting, and stunting. Below ground galling on roots, bulbs, tubers is the typical symptom. Plant death may occur in high infestation level.	 grape Meloidogyne incognita

Because there are so many different hosts for this pathogen, the symptoms are very variable. Common symptoms include abnormal leaf color, abnormal leaf form, wilting leaves, galls, swollen roots, reduced root system, dwarfing and senescence (Cabi 2018). This pathogen does the most damage when present in light soils with hot weather conditions (Alford 2012).	 grape Meloidogyne javanica

It has a wide host range, infecting many woody plants, and it is known to infect all species of the genus Prunus, which includes peach, almond, apricot, cherry, and plum. It also infects various other fruit trees, and grapes, in particular. There have been studies that have shown large concentrations of ring nematodes in peppermint, as well.Symptoms can include, but are not limited to: root-pruning, decreased nutrient uptake, vascular damage, possible death of shoots and limbs, and stunted plant growth. With the reduced nutrient uptake, some cases have shown that the change in ratio if carbon:nitrogen can make plants infected by ring nematodes more susceptible to bacterial canker cause by Pseudomonas syringae, (Lownsberry, et al. 1977).	 grape Mesocriconema xenoplax

Mycosphaerella angulata is a major pathogen affecting the muscadine grape.  Infection occurs mainly after midseason. The primary symptoms of this disease are faint chlorotic spots on the leaves.  The chlorotic spots continue to grow in size during the growing season, forming angular brown lesions in the center.  The irregular lesions on the leaves inhibit normal photosynthesis, which results in leaf loss and exposure of the grapes to sun scald.  This weakens the vines and makes them more susceptible to cold damage.  The pre-harvest infection of this pathogen can slow or stop berry development before maturity. The symptoms of the angular leaf spot disease are relatively easy to recognize late in the season.	 grape Mycosphaerella angulata

Meloidogyne hapla (Northern root-knot nematode) has a wide host range. It is polyphagous and affects over 550 crops and weeds. It feeds on many agricultural and horticultural plants (vegetables, fruits, ornamentals), but few grasses or cereals. A list of known hosts can be found at the bottom of this page.Symptoms can be seen in the roots, leaves, and the overall growth of the infected plant. In roots, there may be stunting, wilting, and the formation of abnormal growths called galls. Galls are usually small and spherical and are situated near many small roots. They are formed when the nematode enters the root and releases chemicals to enlarge root cells, on which they feed. The roots become defective and therefore cannot transport water and nutrients properly. The end result is stunted, wilted, and yellowing plants (characteristic of nutrient deficiency) and a decreased yield. Severity of the symptoms depends on nematode population density and host plant species and cultivar. As the number of nematodes increase in the area, the number and size of root galls increase as well. Each crop responds to Meloidogyne hapla differently. Carrots typically undergo severe forking with galling of the roots, lettuce have beadlike galls, and grasses and onions have small and barely noticeable galls and symptoms. In potato tubers (special stems), brown spots will appear on areas of the tubers where the females have laid their eggs.If a field has a patchy distribution of symptoms, it usually indicates the presence of nematodes. Most nematodes are not usually distributed uniformly in the soil. To correctly identify Meloidogyne hapla, the infected plant should be sent to a lab for a proper diagnosis. One common method is perineal pattern analysis where the perineum of the female nematode (area between the anus and the vulva) is examined for a specific pattern in ridges and annulations. Another common method is analyzing isozyme (different variations of the same enzyme produced by different genes) electrophoretic profiles using esterase and malate dehydrogenase.	 grape Northern root-knot nematode

Paratylenchus spp. nematodes have a wide variety of hosts with a recorded 25 different plants it is able to infect.  Paratylenchus hamatus feeds on the roots of fig trees, celery, grapes, and peaches. P. hamatus has also been documented to cause patchy areas of chlorosis and wilting in lentils, resulting in up to 40% yield loss. Symptoms appear in patches or clusters and plants show a slow and general decline in growth and vigor. Common symptoms of infection are that of other root nematodes; stunted growth of the plant as well as the roots, chlorosis, leaf drop, reduced plant weight or yield, and undersized fruit are all symptoms which may be seen.  These symptoms are universal across the different plant species it infects.  Shallow localized lesions on the roots can be seen at feeding sites.  No signs are present with the exception of the nematodes themselves and their eggs, which are not visible to the naked eye.	 grape Paratylenchus hamatus

Root lesion nematodes infect a great variety of hosts. Pratylenchus penetrans alone has over 350 host plants. They include agricultural crops such as soybeans, potatoes, corn, bananas, and wheat. The genus is found most often in corn. Signs of disease are similar in most plants and generally include necrotic lesions of the roots. The lesions can also be entrances for pathogenic bacteria and fungi, which produce secondary infections. Above ground the plant becomes stunted, chlorotic, and wilted, and it often dies. A crop field may be patchy as plants wither and die. Root lesion nematodes can cause significant yield losses.	 grape Pratylenchus

The hosts of P. tetraspora include some plants of the family Vitaceae. Angular leaf scorch of grapevines has been observed on 18 species of grapevines Vitis, on interspecific hybrids of Vitis, and on Virginia creeper Parthenocissus quiniquefolia. An early symptom of angular leaf scorch of grapevines is the presence of faint chlorotic lesions near major veins on the leaf surface. As the disease progresses, the lesions spread, changing from yellow to reddish brown. Reddening/browning of major leaf veins accompanies the lesions. The reddish brown tissue turns necrotic and retains a yellow margin, which separates the necrotic tissue from the healthy tissue. In red or black Vitis cultivars, the margin is read, not yellow and on occasion, the yellow margin is not present. The reddish brown lesions with yellow margins can be seen in early June or three to four weeks after infection begins. As the lesions become larger late in the growing season, necrosis can cause premature defoliation, thus inhibiting photosynthesis of the plant host. Flower clusters can also dry prematurely, which decreases the plant's ability to produce fruit.	 grape Pseudopezicula tetraspora

Leaves become patchy and reddish in color. There are decreased yields.	 grape Strawberry latent ringspot virus

Like other plant pathogenic viruses, TMV has a very wide host range and has different effects depending on the host being infected. Tobacco mosaic virus has been known to cause a production loss for flue cured tobacco of up to two percent in North Carolina. It is known to infect members of nine plant families, and at least 125 individual species, including tobacco, tomato, pepper (all members of the useful Solanaceae), cucumbers, a number of ornamental flowers, and beans including Phaseolus vulgaris and Vigna unguiculata. There are many different strains. The first symptom of this virus disease is a light green coloration between the veins of young leaves. This is followed quickly by the development of a "mosaic" or mottled pattern of light and dark green areas in the leaves. Rugosity may also be seen where the infected plant leaves display small localized random wrinkles. These symptoms develop quickly and are more pronounced on younger leaves. Its infection does not result in plant death, but if infection occurs early in the season, plants are stunted. Lower leaves are subjected to "mosaic burn"  especially during periods of hot and dry weather. In these cases, large dead areas develop in the leaves. This constitutes one of the most destructive phases of Tobacco mosaic virus infection. Infected leaves may be crinkled, puckered, or elongated. However, if TMV infects crops like grape and apple, it is almost symptomless. TMV is able  to infect and complete its replication cycle in a plant pathogenic fungus,TMV is able to enter and replicate in cells of C. acutatum, C. clavatum, and C. theobromicola, which may not be an exception, although it has neither been found nor probably searched for in nature.	 grape Tobacco mosaic virus

Tobacco necrosis virus (TNV) can thrive on a handful of viable hosts. These hosts include tobacco, zucchini, cucumbers, carrots, French bean, tomatoes, potatoes, and tulips. There are a variety of symptoms that are dependent on the host species. In infected plants, abnormal coloring or necrotic tissue in the leaves may occur and roots may have lesions. If bark is present on the plant, it may become discolored. Fruit or tubers can become covered with sunken and discolored spots and can be smaller overall. On a whole-plant scale, damping off or early dying may occur.	 grape Tobacco necrosis virus

Powdery mildews are generally host-specific. Uncinula necator is the pathogen that causes powdery mildew on grape. The most susceptible hosts of this pathogen are members of the genus Vitis. The signs of powdery mildews are widely recognizable and easily identifiable. The majority of them can be found on the upper sides of the leaves; however, it can also infect the bottom sides, buds, flowers, young fruit, and young stems. A gray-white, dusty, fungal growth consisting of mycelia, conidia and conidiophores coat much of the infected plant. Chasmothecia, which are the overwintering structures, present themselves as tiny, spherical fruiting structures that go from white, to yellowish-brown to black in color, and are about the size of the head of a pin. Symptoms that occur as a result of the infection include necrosis, stunting, leaf curling, and a decrease in quality of the fruit produced.	 grape Uncinula necator

The symptoms that plants exhibit in response to the pathogenicity of Xiphinema americanum are similar to those of other migratory ectoparasitic nematodes of roots. It is common to see poor growth and or stunting of the plant, yellowing or wilting of the foliage, and reduced root systems which can include root necrosis, lack of feeder or secondary roots, and occasional tufts of stubby rootlets.Young, shortleaved yellow pine trees with moderate swelling of roots with clusters of short, stubby branches were the first demonstration of X. americanum pathogenicity in 1955. X. americanum can also cause severe effects on foliage, sometimes causing chlorosis and complete defoliation as seen on Guatemalan coffee trees. The dagger nematode causes the devitalization of root tips and overall root death when they feed at the root tips and root sides of strawberry plants. Reddish-brown lesions that turn black and necrotic with time result at the sites of feeding, and result in reduced root systems and stunted tops.Xiphinema americanum is listed as a C-rated pest in California due to its wide host range of California crops. C-rated pests are widespread, and are of known economic or environmental detriment, according to The California Department of Food and Agriculture. Due to X. americanum's difficulty in maintaining high populations in frequently tilled soils (see Control), the dagger nematode is mainly an economic problem on biennial and perennial crops rather than annual crops (except for damage to emerging seedlings).	 grape Xiphinema americanum

Significant variation in symptoms is seen between diseases, though some symptoms are expressed across species. On a macroscopic scale, plants infected with a X. fastidiosa-related disease exhibit symptoms of water, zinc, and iron deficiencies, manifesting as leaf scorching and stunting in leaves turning them yellowish-brown, gummy substance around leaves, fruit reduction in size and quality, and overall plant height.  As the bacterium progressively colonizes xylem tissues, affected plants often block off their xylem tissue, which can limit the spread of this pathogen; blocking can occur in the form of polysaccharide-rich gels, tyloses, or both.  These plant defenses do not seem to hinder the movement of X. fastidiosa. Occlusion of vascular tissue, while a normal plant response to infection, makes symptoms significantly worse; as the bacterium itself also reduces vascular function, a 90% reduction of vascular hydraulic function was seen in susceptible Vitis vinifera.  This bacterium rarely completely blocks vascular tissue. There usually is a slight amount of vascular function that keeps the plant alive, but makes its fruit or branches die, making the specific plant economically nonproductive. This can cause a massive drop on supply of quality fruit. Smaller colonies usually occur throughout a high proportion of xylem vessels of a symptomatic plant.X. fastidiosa is a Gram-negative, xylem-limited illness that is spread by insects. It can damage a variety of broadleaved tree species that are commonly grown in the United States. X. Fastidiosa can be found in about 600 different plant species.Withering and desiccation of branchesLeaf chlorosisDwarfing or lack of growth of the plantDrooping appearance and shorter internodesShriveled fruits on infected plantsPremature fruit abscissiongum-like substance on leavehardening and size reduction of fruit	 grape Xylella fastidiosa

X. ampelinus is only known to infect a singular species and related subspecies of grapevine, Vitis vinifera, which is native to the near east and has since spread across the globe to produce wine.  Symptoms typically manifest 3–4 weeks in shoots and stems and in 10–14 days on leaves.  This disease displays multiple symptoms depending on the location on the plant.  On plant shoots, symptoms begin to appear in spring through June and first appear on the lower nodes of growth, before spreading upward along the shoot.  The symptoms appear as red/brown streaks initially, before progressing into cracks in the woody structure and cankers, After this, shoots wilt and dry up, before eventually dying back; cross sections of stems show signs of a brownish mucus in the inner tissues.  If infected post leaf growth, leaves typically show symptoms of chlorosis, angular red/brown lesions, and in some cases signs of bacterial ooze may be seen around these lesions.  If infection occurs post bud break and flowers are present, these will typically develop a black color before dying and falling to the ground.  Root symptoms are rare and typically manifest as general stunting of the plant shoots.	 grape Xylophilus ampelinus

Visible deficiency symptoms include:Chlorosis - yellowing of leaves; often interveinal; in some species, young leaves are the most affected, but in others both old and new leaves are chlorotic;Necrotic spots - death of leaf tissue on areas of chlorosis;Bronzing of leaves - chlorotic areas may turn bronze coloured;Rosetting of leaves - zinc-deficient dicotyledons often have shortened internodes, so leaves are clustered on the stem;Stunting of plants - small plants may occur as a result of reduced growth or because of reduced internode elongation;Dwarf leaves ('little leaf') - small leaves that often show chlorosis, necrotic spots or bronzing;Malformed leaves - leaves are often narrower or have wavy margins.	 grape Zinc deficiency (plant disorder)

Anisogramma anomala's host is the European hazelnut. It is a particular problem on Corylus avellana, which is farmed commercially. Wild alternate hosts do exist and make elimination of the disease particularly hard. The predominant infected tissue is the branches. The disease begins producing cankers on the branches that continue to spread each year. The disease is usually diagnosed by the stromata that make up a cankers being identified. The stromata are elliptical and black. They form in rows and continue to grow in this pattern each year because they are perennial. These stromata will eventually emit a white ooze containing spores that can also be used for diagnosis.	 hazelnut Anisogramma anomala

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 hazelnut Phymatotrichopsis omnivora

Phytoplasmas can infect and cause various symptoms in more than 700 plant species. One characteristic symptom is abnormal floral organ development including phyllody (i.e., the production of leaf-like structures in place of flowers) and virescence (i.e., the development of green flowers attributable to a loss of pigment by petal cells). Phytoplasma-harboring flowering plants may nevertheless be sterile. The expression of genes involved in maintaining the apical meristem or in the development of floral organs is altered in the morphologically affected floral organs of phytoplasma-infected plants.A phytoplasma infection often triggers leaf yellowing, probably due to the presence of phytoplasma cells in phloem, which can affect phloem function and carbohydrate transport, inhibit chlorophyll biosynthesis, and trigger chlorophyll breakdown. These symptoms may be attributable to stress caused by the infection rather than a specific pathogenetic process.Many phytoplasma-infected plants develop a bushy or "witches' broom" appearance due to changes in their normal growth patterns. Most plants exhibit apical dominance but infection can trigger the proliferation of axillary (side) shoots and a reduction in internode size. Such symptoms are actually useful in the commercial production of poinsettias. Infection triggers more axillary shoot production; the poinsettia plants thus produce more than a single flower.	 hazelnut Phytoplasma

All cultivated species of the genus Prunus, which includes plums, cherries, apricots, almonds, and peaches, are susceptible to one or more strains of PNRSV. Hops and rose are also susceptible to infection by the virus. Other susceptible hosts used for diagnosis include Chenopodium quinoa Willd., sunflower (Helianthus annus), and Momordica balsamina.Symptoms on orchard trees can include death of buds and roots, reduced tree survival and uniformity, and increased susceptibility to winter injury. Some common symptoms also include necrotic “shot holes” in leaves or rugosity and mosaic symptoms. In sweet cherries, PNRSV causes reduced leaf size and produces diffused chlorotic rings and/or spots. Generally, symptoms of PNRSV appear in the year following infection, and then becomes symptomless, although some strains cause recurrent symptoms annually. Although adult trees can show recovery from initial symptoms, keeping young trees virus-free is important because the virus can cause long-lasting stunting compared to healthy trees.  It is important to note that symptom severity varies due to host cultivar and viral isolate.	 hazelnut Prunus necrotic ringspot virus

Xanthomonas arboricola has a vast host range, however, most symptoms are consistent throughout each of the cultivars such as hazelnut, walnut, and genus prunus (stone fruits). In X. pruni (syn. X. arboricola pv. pruni), the symptoms first usually begin with dark lesions forming on leaves. As the bacteria proliferate, bacterial ooze is noticeable as the necrotic lesions can become greasy. The discharge from the leaf can then spread inoculum to other leaves via rain splash. Infection can lead to an early defoliation of the plant, greatly affecting fruit production. Fruit will also show lesions similar to those found on the leaves. The lesions can cause significant rot of the fruit, thus decreasing or even eliminating any yield. While these are the primary symptoms, sometimes the bacteria can enter the twig over winter, and cause noticeable cankers in the spring; a dieback can happen if the stem cankers are severe enough.  	 hazelnut Xanthomonas arboricola

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 hemp Alternaria alternata

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 hemp Alternaria tenuis

Amotivational syndrome has been suspected to affect the frontal cortex or frontal lobe of the brain by the impairment of that region which monitors cognitive functions and skills that revolve around emotional expression, decision making, prioritisation, and internal, purposeful mental action. It is most often detected through signs that are linked to apathy such as disinhibited presentations, short and long term memory deficit or amnesia, a lack of emotional display also known as emotional blunting, relative disinterest, passivity, and reluctance to participate in prolonged activities that require attention or tenacity. Common symptoms that may also be experienced include incoherence, an inability to concentrate on tasks, emotional distress, a diminished level of consciousness, selective attention or attentional control, and being withdrawn and asocial. These symptoms are also generally linked to cannabis consumption and abuse, as well as SSRI medication that are often used as forms of antidepressant medication.	 hemp Amotivational syndrome

While it is common for the hosts not to show any symptoms of the pathogens influence, there are some symptoms that can occur in the hosts. The most prevalent symptoms of the ArMV are stunting of the plant and leaf flecking/molting and leaf enations. The symptoms will vary based on the type of rootstock, environmental conditions and variety.	 hemp Arabis mosaic virus

Hosts species include wheat, barley, oats, rye, triticale, turfgrasses and many other grass species found throughout the world.  Symptoms are found on lower leaves early in the season and upper leaves later in the season.  Lesions are usually elliptical and are initially chlorotic.  Later, they develop a brown margin with a white center and split longitudinally. Pycnidia can be found within the lesions are generally black in color.	 hemp Ascochyta

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 hemp Botryodiplodia theobromae

The long-term and short-term effects of cannabis use are associated with behavioral effects leading to a wide variety of effects on the body systems and physiological states. CHS is a paradoxical syndrome characterized by hyperemesis (persistent vomiting), as opposed to the better known antiemetic properties of cannabinoids. Specifically, CHS takes the pattern of cyclical nausea, vomiting, and abdominal pain in the setting of chronic cannabinoid use. The abdominal pain tends to be mild and diffused. There are three phases of CHS: the prodromal phase, the hyperemetic phase, and the recovery phase.	 hemp Cannabinoid hyperemesis syndrome

Cannabis use is associated with comorbid mental health problems, such as mood and anxiety disorders, and discontinuing cannabis use is difficult for some users. Psychiatric comorbidities are often present in dependent cannabis users including a range of personality disorders.Based on annual survey data, some high school seniors who report smoking daily (nearly 7%, according to one study) may function at a lower rate in school than students that do not. The sedating and anxiolytic properties of tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in some users might make the use of cannabis an attempt to self-medicate personality or psychiatric disorders.	 hemp Cannabis use disorder

Colletotrichum coccodes can infect potato, onion, tomato and has a large host range. The disease also infects hosts from the Cucurbitaceae, Fabaceae and Solanaceae families).Colletotrichum coccodes can cause lesions, twisted leaves, and a bleached color on onion.On tomato, can see that there are sunken in dark spots. As the disease continues to develop can begin to see spots that are rotting. The pathogen can infect both green and ripe fruit; spots are not evident on green right away, but over time they develop. (Dillard, 1987).  Symptoms are most common on the fruit, but they may also appear on the stem, leaves, and roots.In potato, C. coccodes is characterized by silvery lesions on the tuber surface which result in a deterioration in skin quality. In addition to causing tuber blemish symptoms, C. coccodes also causes symptoms on stems and foliage, which result in crop losses, and is implicated as a factor in the potato early dying disease complex. In the past the pathogen was not regarded as an issue, but it has become more prevalent.	 hemp Colletotrichum atramentarium

Colletotrichum coccodes can infect potato, onion, tomato and has a large host range. The disease also infects hosts from the Cucurbitaceae, Fabaceae and Solanaceae families).Colletotrichum coccodes can cause lesions, twisted leaves, and a bleached color on onion.On tomato, can see that there are sunken in dark spots. As the disease continues to develop can begin to see spots that are rotting. The pathogen can infect both green and ripe fruit; spots are not evident on green right away, but over time they develop. (Dillard, 1987).  Symptoms are most common on the fruit, but they may also appear on the stem, leaves, and roots.In potato, C. coccodes is characterized by silvery lesions on the tuber surface which result in a deterioration in skin quality. In addition to causing tuber blemish symptoms, C. coccodes also causes symptoms on stems and foliage, which result in crop losses, and is implicated as a factor in the potato early dying disease complex. In the past the pathogen was not regarded as an issue, but it has become more prevalent.	 hemp Colletotrichum coccodes

This virus was first characterized in cucumbers (Cucumis sativus) showing mosaic symptoms in 1934, hence the name Cucumber mosaic. Since then, it has been found to infect a great variety of other plants. These include other vegetables such as squash, melons, peppers, eggplants, tomatoes, beans, carrots, celery, lettuce, spinach, beets, many ornamentals and bedding plants, such as Narcissus, and various weeds. Its presence has been confirmed on every continent of the world, including Antarctica.Symptoms seen with this virus include leaf mosaic or mottling (Fig. 1), yellowing, ringspots, stunting, and leaf, flower and fruit distortion. CMV also induces a type of symptom on leaves known as the "shoestring" effect on many host species. This effect causes young leaves to appear narrow and the entire plant to be stunted.Specifically, CMV can cause cucumbers to turn pale and bumpy. The leaves of these plants turn mosaic and their rugosity is often changed, making leaves wrinkled and misshapen. Growth of these plants is usually also stunted and produces few flowers. Often, cucumber fruits are oddly shaped, appear gray, and tested bitter. These appearances lead to them being referred to as "white pickles".Tomato plants are usually stunted and have poorly shaped leaves, or "fernleaf", when infected by CMV. Also certain strains of CMV can cause partial or total crop loss. CMV in peppers causes slightly different symptoms than the previously mentioned. Pepper plants often have severe foliar damage, shown as mosaic and necrotic rings. Often the peppers themselves are misshapen and contain chlorotic rings and spots. In celery, CMV causes streaking and spotting and can be often confused with symptoms of the celery mosaic virus. Symptoms of CMV in lettuce, such as chlorosis, plant stunting and often do not properly head, can be very similar to those of lettuce mosaic virus.CMV has also been identified in a lesser extent to a number of plant species. It is found to be a minor virus infecting Allium crops. The virus infection causes extensive malformation on garlic plants, and mild malformation to severe necrotic streaks on onion leaves. The severe damages on garlic plants and difficulty of aphids transmission of garlic isolate, were possible causal for the rare CMV on garlic. Genetically, the two onion isolates from Turkey (CMV-14.3Po and CMV-15.5Po) are highly similar to others isolated from various plant species in Mediterranean, European, and East Asian countries. CMV was also detected on American beautyberry, an important wildlife and pollinator food source plant native to North America.In plant tissue this virus makes characteristic viral inclusion bodies which can be diagnostic. They are hexagonal in shape (Fig. 2) and stain both in a protein stain and a nucleic acid stain. The inclusions can also be rhomboidal, may appear hollow (Fig. 2) and can form larger aggregates. The inclusions are not uniformly distributed and can be found in epidermal (Fig. 2), mesophyll, and stomatal cells. These inclusions are made up of virus particles.			 hemp Cucumber mosaic virus

D. dipsaci has an extensive host range. Major damage occurs in garlic, onion, carrot, fava bean, alfalfa, oats, and strawberry. Ornamental plants can also be infected including hyacinth and tulip. It is estimated that this pathogen infects 400–500 plant species worldwide.In Allium species (onions, garlic, and leeks), infected plants show characteristic symptoms including stunted growth, yellow spots, leaf curl, and foliage lesions. Stems often have swollen regions called “spikkles.” As adult nematodes migrate into the scales of the bulb, and the scales become soft, grey, and loosely packed. Highly infected bulbs can also split apart or show malformed bloating. The leaves of the plant become flaccid and may collapse. This can lead to defoliated plants. Garlic shows similar symptoms of leaf yellowing and stunted bulbs. When harvested, the infected garlic may be missing portions of the root system.In fava beans (Vicia faba), symptoms of infection include reddish-brown stem lesions that can turn black. Young bean pods are dark-brown. Infected seeds are smaller and distorted compared to healthy beans. Speckles and spots are also commonly seen on infected fava beans.Up to 30 biological races occur within D. dipsaci that are mostly distinguished by their host preferences. Very little morphological differences are seen between the races which makes diagnosis difficult. Seed material samples from infected plants can be dissected and viewed under a microscope to confirm the correct race.	 hemp Ditylenchus dipsaci

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 hemp Fusarium solani

The pathogen is capable of causing a variety of diseases: head blight or 'scab' on wheat (Triticum), barley (Hordeum), rice (Oryza), oats (Avena), and Gibberella stalk and ear rot disease on maize (Zea). Additionally, the fungus may infect other plant species without causing any disease symptoms.MaizeIn Gibberella stalk rot, the leaves on early-infected plants will turn a dull greyish-green, and the lower internodes will soften and turn a tan to dark-brown. A pink-red discoloration occurs within the stalks of diseased tissue. Shredding of the pith may reveal small, round, black perithecia on the stalks. Gibberella (red) ear rot can have a reddish mold that is often at the ear tip. The infection occurs by colonizing corn silk and symptoms first occur at the ear's apex. The white mycelium turns from pink to red over time, eventually covering the entire ear. Ears that become infected early don't fully develop the reddish mold near the ear tip, as the mold grows between the husks and ear.RiceGibberella zeae can turn affected seeds red and cause brown discoloration in certain areas on the seed or the entire seed surface. The surface of husks develop white spots that later become yellow and salmon or carmine. Infected grains are light, shrunken and brittle. Stem nodes begin to rot and wilt, eventually causing them to turn black and disintegrate when they are infected by the fungal pathogen.WheatBrown, dark purple-black necrotic lesions will form on the outer surface of the spikelets, what the wheat ear breaks up into. The lesions may be referred to as scabs, but this is not to be confused and associated with other scab diseases such as those with different host and pathogen. Head blight is visible before the spikes mature. Spikelets begin to appear water-soaked before the loss of chlorophyll, which gives a white straw color. Peduncles that are directly under the inflorescence can become discolored into a brown-purple color. Tissues of the inflorescence typically become blighted into a bleached tan appearance, and the grain within it atrophies. The awn will become deformed, twisted and curve in a downward direction.BarleyInfections on barley are not always visible in the field. Similar to wheat, infected spikelets show a browning or water-soaked appearance. The infected kernels display a tan to dark brown discoloration. During long periods of wetness, pink to salmon-orange spore masses can be seen on the infected spikelets and kernels. The cortical lesions of infected seeds become a reddish-brown in cool, moist soil. Warm soil can cause head blight to occur after emergence, and crown and basal culm rot can be observed in later plant development.	 hemp Gibberella saubinetii

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 hemp Lasiodiplodia theobromae

L. taurica is the pathogen responsible for powdery mildew on onions, but it can also infect peppers, tomatoes, eggplant, cotton, and garlic. While L. taurica can infect many different plants it is actually very host specific. Different races of L. taurica can only infect certain crops, and even specific cultivars within the same crop. An accurate way to describe its host specificity is that this disease is, “a composite species consisting of many host-specific races." Symptoms of Onion Powdery Mildew (OPM) are usually seen as circular or oblong lesions that are 5 to 20 mm and have a chlorotic or necrotic appearance. The lesions appear on older leaves before the bulb of the onion begins to form, but also can occur on the younger leaves towards the end of the season. As the disease progresses signs of OPM can also be seen. On the lesions white mycelium can be found with conidiophores bearing either lanceolate or rounded condia.	 hemp Leveillula taurica

Cannabis use may precipitate new-onset panic attacks and depersonalization/derealization symptoms simultaneously. The association between cannabis use and depersonalisation/derealisation disorder has been studied. Depersonalization is defined as a dissociative symptom in which one feels like an outside observer with respect to one's thoughts, body, and sensations. While derealization is marked by feelings of unreality and detachment from one's surroundings, such that one's environment is experienced as remote or unfamiliar.Some individuals experiencing depersonalisation/derealisation symptoms prior to any cannabis use have reported the effects of cannabis to calm these symptoms and make the depersonalisation/derealisation disorder more manageable with regular use.	 hemp Long-term effects of cannabis

One of the most harmful seed and soil borne pathogens, Macrophomina phaseolina is a fungus that infects nearly 500 plant species in more than 100 families. The hosts include: peanut, cabbage, pepper, chickpea, soybean, sunflower, sweet potato, alfalfa, sesame, potato, sorghum, wheat, and corn, among others. The identification of isolates of M. phaseolina is usually based on morphology and efforts to divide the pathogen into subspecies, but because there are wide intraspecific variations in the phenotype of the isolates, these criteria are often not reliable. The failure to correctly detect and identify M. phaseolina using conventional culture-based morphological techniques has led scientists to develop nucleic acid-based molecular approaches, such as highly sensitive and specific polymerase chain reaction-based methods. Researchers have also recently created species-specific oligonucleotide primers and digoxigenin-labeled probes in hopes of better identifying and detecting M. phaseolina.The pathogen M. phaseolina affects the fibrovascular system of the roots and basal internodes of its host, impeding the transport of water and nutrients to the upper parts of the plant. As a result, progressive wilting, premature dying, loss of vigor, and reduced yield are characteristic symptoms of M. phaseolina infection. The fungus also causes many diseases like damping off, seedling blight, collar rot, stem rot, charcoal rot, basal stem rot, and root rot. Although brown lesions may form on the hypocotyls or emerging seedlings, many symptoms occur during or after flowering, including grey discoloration of the stem and taproots, shredding of plant tissue in the stem and top of the taproot, and hollowing of the stem. Small black dots may form beneath the epidermis of the lower stem and in the taproot, giving the stems and roots a charcoal-sprinkled appearance. When the epidermis is removed, small and black microsclerotia (a sign of the disease) may be so numerous that they give a greyish-black tint to the plant tissue. In addition, reddish-brown discoloration and black streaks can form in the pith and vascular tissues of the root and stem.	 hemp Macrophomina phaseolina

Plants affected by M. incognita present above ground symptoms of water- and nutrient-stress, yellowing, wilting, and stunting. Below ground galling on roots, bulbs, tubers is the typical symptom. Plant death may occur in high infestation level.	 hemp Meloidogyne incognita

Because there are so many different hosts for this pathogen, the symptoms are very variable. Common symptoms include abnormal leaf color, abnormal leaf form, wilting leaves, galls, swollen roots, reduced root system, dwarfing and senescence (Cabi 2018). This pathogen does the most damage when present in light soils with hot weather conditions (Alford 2012).	 hemp Meloidogyne javanica

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 hemp Nectria haematococca

L. taurica is the pathogen responsible for powdery mildew on onions, but it can also infect peppers, tomatoes, eggplant, cotton, and garlic. While L. taurica can infect many different plants it is actually very host specific. Different races of L. taurica can only infect certain crops, and even specific cultivars within the same crop. An accurate way to describe its host specificity is that this disease is, “a composite species consisting of many host-specific races." Symptoms of Onion Powdery Mildew (OPM) are usually seen as circular or oblong lesions that are 5 to 20 mm and have a chlorotic or necrotic appearance. The lesions appear on older leaves before the bulb of the onion begins to form, but also can occur on the younger leaves towards the end of the season. As the disease progresses signs of OPM can also be seen. On the lesions white mycelium can be found with conidiophores bearing either lanceolate or rounded condia.	 hemp Oidiopsis taurica

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 hemp Pellicularia filamentosa

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 hemp Phymatotrichopsis omnivora

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 hemp Phymatotrichum omnivorum

The host of this disease is hemp (Cannabis sativa). The disease has been observed in Europe and parts of Asia, and on wild hemp in Illinois, suggesting that it has spread to the Western hemisphere. The symptoms that correspond with this disease include discoloration of the leaves, irregular leaf shape and death of the leaves. The leaves will begin to turn yellow, and eventually the entire plant can die. A way to diagnose this disease is to look at the underside of the leaves. The fungus grows through the top side of the leaf and makes its fruiting body on the underside. The fruiting body is where sporangia are produced, and from the sporangia, zoospores are released, which are the infectious stage of this disease cycle.	 hemp Pseudoperonospora cannabina

Downy mildew on hops is caused by the pathogen Pseudoperonospora humuli, an oomycete protist. P. humuli is an obligate biotrophic pathogen, meaning that it can only live and grow in living host tissue. P. humuli, like most downy mildews, is highly host-specific and thus will only infect hop (Humulus lupulus) and also Japanese hop (Humulus japonicas).The most characteristic symptom of hop downy mildew are the “basal spikes” that form on the plant. These structures result from systemically infected shoots and are “stunted and have brittle, downward-curled leaves from which masses of purple to black sporangiophores and sporangia are produced.” These spikes can exist as three distinct types:1)      “Primary spikes”, which arise from infected hop crowns2)      “Secondary spikes”, which arise from infected apical meristems3)      “Aerial spikes”, which occur on lateral branches or trained vinesPrimary and secondary spikes result in stunting shoots and brittle leaves. Primary spikes also cause shortened internodes. Aerial spikes adversely affect the development of the plant, resulting in bines (the long, flexible stem the plant uses to climb) falling away from the string on which hops is allowed to climb. Infected leaves and cones show symptoms as well. Infected leaves will change color, ranging from purple-gray to black downy growth. Infected cones become hard and brown and display disrupted development.	 hemp Pseudoperonospora humuli

Pythium aphanidermatum is responsible for pre- and post-emergence damping off.  Pre-emergence damping off is when the seed is infected prior to germination.  This can result in poor or no germination, and is observable as a browning or rotting of the seed.  Post-emergence damping off takes place after germination and results in a thinning, water-soaked stem near the plant collar, which eventually causes the collapse of the plant.  P. aphanidermatum can also cause root rot.  Symptoms of root rot include stunted growth, chlorotic leaves, leaf drop, and wilting.  The infection begins at the root tip, and can cause the infected region to lose its protective outer layer, exposing the inner root to other pathogens	 hemp Pythium aphanidermatum

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 hemp Rhizoctonia solani

A host species for Schiffnerula cannabis has yet to be named. However, a variety of signs are present with Schiffnerula cannabis. Respectively as black mildew are, flat, gray-black, and film like areas throughout the leaf, colonies of conidia on the surface of leaves, as well as ascomata and ascii are present on hosts as Schiffnerula cannabis runs its course. In addition, black mold colonies can be amphigenous and thin; the hyphae with a brown hue and flexuous like the pathogen Schiffnerula azadirachtae.	 hemp Schiffnerula cannabis

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 hemp Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

This disease only infects cannabis or hemp plants. Symptomatic responses associated with this disease will be in the form of white lesions with concentric rings on the surface of the plants vegetative leaves, as well as browning and chlorosis on infected leaves. The first symptoms of this disease will occur on the older, lower leaves of the plant. Septoria has been known to spread rapidly within a growing season and will eventually attack all of the cannabis’ vegetative growth rendering it unable to perform any biological processes and ultimately die. If the disease is extreme most vegetative tissue will be destroyed, taking away the cannabis plant’s source of sugars and ultimately turning the entire host into a sink and reducing yields come harvest. Nitrogen deficient cannabis plants are more susceptible to being infected. Though Septoria destroys vegetative growth it has little to no impact on the formation of buds. This disease was discovered in New York dating back to 1884, and was recently found and studied in North Carolina.	 hemp Septoria cannabina

This disease only infects cannabis or hemp plants. Symptomatic responses associated with this disease will be in the form of white lesions with concentric rings on the surface of the plants vegetative leaves, as well as browning and chlorosis on infected leaves. The first symptoms of this disease will occur on the older, lower leaves of the plant. Septoria has been known to spread rapidly within a growing season and will eventually attack all of the cannabis’ vegetative growth rendering it unable to perform any biological processes and ultimately die. If the disease is extreme most vegetative tissue will be destroyed, taking away the cannabis plant’s source of sugars and ultimately turning the entire host into a sink and reducing yields come harvest. Nitrogen deficient cannabis plants are more susceptible to being infected. Though Septoria destroys vegetative growth it has little to no impact on the formation of buds. This disease was discovered in New York dating back to 1884, and was recently found and studied in North Carolina.	 hemp Septoria cannabis

The pathogen that causes powdery mildew of hops was once considered to be Sphaerotheca macularis, which is capable of infecting many plants; however, in recent years, the pathogen that causes powdery mildew of hops has been taxonomically classified as Podosphaera macularis. This ascomycete is only known to be pathogenic on hop plants, including both ornamental and wild hops, and Cannabis sativa. The host range of many Podosphaera macularis strains is restricted by the existence of resistant hop varieties, such as the “Nugget” variety of Washington state and Oregon, although in recent years, resistance within this hop variety has been overcome in the laboratory. When disease does occur, early symptoms include chlorotic spots on the leaves of hop plants. Spots may fade to gray or white as the season progresses. Signs include white clusters of hyphae, which are often present on the leaves, and in some cases can infect the cone itself. If this infection occurs, a brown, necrotic lesion may develop. When both mating types exist within a population, chleistothecia can form and are visible as small, black dots on the undersides of leaves.	 hemp Sphaerotheca humuli

The pathogen that causes powdery mildew of hops was once considered to be Sphaerotheca macularis, which is capable of infecting many plants; however, in recent years, the pathogen that causes powdery mildew of hops has been taxonomically classified as Podosphaera macularis. This ascomycete is only known to be pathogenic on hop plants, including both ornamental and wild hops, and Cannabis sativa. The host range of many Podosphaera macularis strains is restricted by the existence of resistant hop varieties, such as the “Nugget” variety of Washington state and Oregon, although in recent years, resistance within this hop variety has been overcome in the laboratory. When disease does occur, early symptoms include chlorotic spots on the leaves of hop plants. Spots may fade to gray or white as the season progresses. Signs include white clusters of hyphae, which are often present on the leaves, and in some cases can infect the cone itself. If this infection occurs, a brown, necrotic lesion may develop. When both mating types exist within a population, chleistothecia can form and are visible as small, black dots on the undersides of leaves.	 hemp Sphaerotheca macularis

Spasticity. Based on the results of 3 high quality trials and 5 of lower quality, oral cannabis extract was rated as effective, and THC as probably effective, for improving people's subjective experience of spasticity. Oral cannabis extract and THC both were rated as possibly effective for improving objective measures of spasticity.Centrally mediated pain and painful spasms.  Based on the results of 4 high quality trials and 4 low quality trials, oral cannabis extract was rated as effective, and THC as probably effective in treating central pain and painful spasms.Bladder dysfunction. Based on a single high quality study, oral cannabis extract and THC were rated as probably ineffective for controlling bladder complaints in multiple sclerosis	 hemp Tetrahydrocannabinol

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 hemp Thanatephorus cucumeris

There are many strains of Verticillium dahliae which are categorized into vegetative compatibility groups (VCG). These groups comprise strains that are able to exchange genetic material via anastomosis. Each VCG affects a few or only one host and the virulence of the pathogen varies by host. While individual V. dahliae strains are relatively host specific, as a species it has a wide range.Verticillium dahliae has a very wide host range, affecting over 300 plant species. Some susceptible crops include Brussels sprouts, cabbage, eggplant, cucumbers, mint, pepper, potatoes, pumpkin, spinach, tomato, watermelon, honeydew, and cantaloupe. Of these, tomato, potato, and eggplant have resistant or tolerant varieties.Symptoms of this disease are seen throughout the plant. Leaves may have abnormal coloration, necrotic areas, wilt, and/or fall off the plant. The stem may have discolored vascular tissue, exhibit rosetting (shortened internodes of the plant caused by reduced growth, resulting in a rosette-like appearance), and/or be stunted. Early senescence and dieback may also occur.Microsclerotia can be seen under a lens as small black structures in the vasculature of living and dead plants. This feature can be used to distinguish V. dahliae from V. albo-atrum, the other verticillium wilt pathogen.	 hemp Verticillium dahliae

Armillaria species infect a wide variety of woody plants. In a survey of 250 permanent plots of trees in Albania, Armillaria tabescens affected multiple species of trees including fir species, where it invaded when the plant was stressed. Tsopelas et al. reported Armillaria tabescens to be more prevalent in areas where the trees were stressed due to limited moisture. In oak trees, it was slightly more damaging and could kill young trees. Armillaria tabescens was also recorded in poplar and eucalyptus plantations, and almond trees were found to be very susceptible to infection. The results of the study by Lushaj et al. showed that Armillaria tabescens was most frequently recorded on fruit and ornamental trees compared to the other species.Armillaria tabescens causes separation of the bark from the wood by the production of mycelial fans in the trunk, a common sign of Armillaria root rot. It also causes gummosis, patches of gummy material on the surface of plants, which occurs in response to an external stimulus which causes the plant to ooze sap. Other common symptoms are soft rot of cortex, dwarfing, dieback, wilting, and abnormal coloring of the leaves. Small trees are killed rapidly by Armillaria tabescens and the symptoms aren’t noticeable until the leaves wilt. However, on larger trees symptoms occur earlier and start as a thin crown with small leaves. A crown of a tree refers to any branches or foliage that are growing out from the trunk. Therefore, thinning of the crown would mean reduced branches and leaves. The trees eventually start yellowing and defoliating followed by fast wilting and dying of limbs. The fungus is a white rot so it breaks down lignin in the wood. The breaking down of the lignin leads to the trees becoming hollow.	 holiday cacti Armillaria tabescens

There are a variety of hosts including but not limited to; banana, beans, cabbage, carrot, cassava, coffee, corn, cotton, onion, other crucifers, pepper, potato, sweet potato and tomato. Pandanus conoideus and karuka (Pandanus julianettii) get bacterial soft rot and necrosis on the leaves from Pectobacterium carotovorum subsp. carotovorum. For each host there are different symptoms displayed. Most symptoms are along the lines of watery and soft decay of the tissue. Cabbage and crucifers' symptoms start where the tissue makes contact with the soil. Often there is a change in color and in the case of a carrot, the whole taproot can be decayed leaving just the epidermis. Sweet potatoes show clear lesions that grow rapidly leaving a recognizable watery and soft, oozy tissue where only the peel remains intact.Potatoes experience a cream to tan colored tuber that becomes very soft and watery. A characteristic black border separates the diseased area and the healthy tissue. Only when the secondary organism invades the infected tissue does that decay become slimy with a foul odor. Like the carrot, the whole tuber can be consumed leaving just the epidermis in the soil. The foliage becomes weak and chlorotic with upward turned leaves and lesions on the stem. The stem also rots and becomes mushy with its colorless or brown lesions.	 holiday cacti Bacterial soft rot

Bipolaris cactivora is an ascomycete, causing cactus stem rot and pitahaya (dragon fruit) rot. Also known as Drechslera cactivora, this fungus has been reported causing fruit rot on Hylocereus undatus (white-fleshed pitahaya). This specific cactus is both used decoratively as well as commercially in production of pitahaya fruit. The initial symptoms of the disease, appearing two to three days after inoculation, are yellowish lesions that are water soaked, which progress to a brown color. Seven to ten days after initial appearance of lesions, the rot expands to form large areas of rot which grow dark colored spores. The rot then dries, and the plant dies.	 holiday cacti Bipolaris cactivora

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 holiday cacti Colletotrichum gloeosporioides

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 holiday cacti Glomerella cingulata

INSV has a wide host range and can be found in over 300 plant species including weeds, fruits, vegetables and ornamental crops. Of these, the most severely affected include tomatoes, lettuce, pepper and peppermint as well as most all ornamentals. Symptoms of infection include a downward curling of the leaves, leaf tip dieback, stunting, necrosis of growing leaf tips, sunken ‘chicken pox-like’ spots on leaves (often with a surrounding halo), stem death and yellowing.  Since these symptoms are so generic, extreme caution must be taken when introducing new plants to your greenhouse. Infected plants can not be cured and not all hosts display visible symptoms Western Flower Thrips are extremely hard to remove from their host plants, as they often dig themselves deep into blossoms, buds and other areas hard to reach with insecticides. So, even if plants are sprayed regularly with insecticide, INSV and other insect vectored viruses can not always be ruled out when forming diagnosis.Temperature and host both play an important factor when discussing the symptoms which an INSV infected plant will display. When New Guinea Impatiens are cultivated in an environment varying between 75 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit the host plant will be highly symptomatic. However, when New Guinea Impatiens are grown in an environment just 10 degrees cooler it is unlikely for there to be any observable symptoms of disease.	 holiday cacti Impatiens necrotic spot virus

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 holiday cacti Phytophthora nicotianae

Pythium aphanidermatum is responsible for pre- and post-emergence damping off.  Pre-emergence damping off is when the seed is infected prior to germination.  This can result in poor or no germination, and is observable as a browning or rotting of the seed.  Post-emergence damping off takes place after germination and results in a thinning, water-soaked stem near the plant collar, which eventually causes the collapse of the plant.  P. aphanidermatum can also cause root rot.  Symptoms of root rot include stunted growth, chlorotic leaves, leaf drop, and wilting.  The infection begins at the root tip, and can cause the infected region to lose its protective outer layer, exposing the inner root to other pathogens	 holiday cacti Pythium aphanidermatum

Pythium irregulare is an oomycete that causes pre- and post-emergence damping off, as well as root rot. Pre-emergence damping off occurs when P. irregulare infects seeds before they emerge, causing them to rot and turn brown, thus preventing successful growth. Alternatively, post-emergence damping off occurs when the oomycete infects just after the seed has germinated. This usually causes infection in the roots and stem which appears as water soaking and necrosis. Depending on the severity, plants may collapse or be severely stunted. In plants that are older and more established, P. irregulare causes root rot. This will initially cause necrotic lesions, which leads to chlorosis, reduced yield, poor growth, and stunting due to inadequate water and nutrient acquisition by the roots. Additionally, P. irregulare is often found coinfecting with other Pythium species. All three of these diseases caused by P. irregulare can be caused by other pathogens as well, so a disease diagnosis is not necessarily indicative of P. irregulareIn order to identify Pythium irregulare it is necessary to isolate the organism and observe it microscopically. First, it is important to identify that the microbe is an oomycete by looking for characteristics that are specific to oomycetes, such as coenocytic hyphae, zoospores, and oospores. After that, one can identify the microbe as being in the genera Pythium by observing disease symptoms, host range, as well as the presence of a vesicle, where zoospores form, which is attached to the sporangia. In contrast, most other oomycetes do not have a vesicle and the zoospores form in the sporangia. Finally, once the genera has been identified, it is helpful to use a dichotomous key to identify the species. Some of the key identifiers for P. irregulare include oogonia with irregular shaped, cylindrical projections, sporangia that occur singly, sporangia that are not filamentous, and oogonia smaller than 30 μm. There are also many genomic tests that can be done to determine species based on specific DNA markers. It is also important to note that many diagnosticians do not identify to the species level because it can be difficult to find all necessary microscopic structures and many management techniques can be applied to all Pythium species.Pythium irregulare has a very broad host range, including many agronomically and horticulturally important crops and is found on every continent except for Antarctica. P. irregulare infects over 200 species, including cereals, legumes, fruits, vegetables, and ornamentals. It differs from many other Pythium species in that it prefers cooler environments. A moist environment is also necessary for disease, which aids motility of spores. It is commonly found in both greenhouses and fields.	 holiday cacti Pythium irregulare

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 holiday cacti Rhizoctonia solani

TSWV infects a variety of hosts, contributing to its global economic impact on crops. There are over a thousand different hosts for TSWV. The host range of TSWV includes agronomically important crops like tomatoes and tobacco. The symptoms of TSWV vary from host to host. There is also variability of symptoms within a single type of host due to the age of the plant, nutrition and the environment (especially temperature). Common symptoms include stunting, ringspots on fruit and necrosis of leaves. There are many different strains of TSWV, and differences in symptoms may also be attributed to the differences in the number of strains present.	 holiday cacti Tomato spotted wilt virus

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 hop Alternaria alternata

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 hop Alternaria tenuis

While it is common for the hosts not to show any symptoms of the pathogens influence, there are some symptoms that can occur in the hosts. The most prevalent symptoms of the ArMV are stunting of the plant and leaf flecking/molting and leaf enations. The symptoms will vary based on the type of rootstock, environmental conditions and variety.	 hop Arabis mosaic virus

Armillaria mellea typically infects hardwood trees and conifers but sometimes will infect non-woody monocots and a few herbaceous plants. There are few signs, and the ones that do exist are often hard to find. The most prominent sign is honey-colored mushrooms at the base of the infected plant. Additional signs include white, fan-shaped mycelia and black rhizomorphs with diameters between 1/32nd of an inch and 1/8th of an inch. These usually are not as noticeable because they occur beneath the bark and in the soil, respectively. The symptoms are much more numerous, including slower growth, dieback of branches, yellowing foliage, rotted wood at base and/or roots, external cankers, cracking bark, bleeding stem, leaf wilting, defoliation, and rapid death. Leaf wilting, defoliation, and dieback occur after the destruction of the cambium.	 hop Armillaria mellea

Meloidogyne hapla (Northern root-knot nematode) has a wide host range. It is polyphagous and affects over 550 crops and weeds. It feeds on many agricultural and horticultural plants (vegetables, fruits, ornamentals), but few grasses or cereals. A list of known hosts can be found at the bottom of this page.Symptoms can be seen in the roots, leaves, and the overall growth of the infected plant. In roots, there may be stunting, wilting, and the formation of abnormal growths called galls. Galls are usually small and spherical and are situated near many small roots. They are formed when the nematode enters the root and releases chemicals to enlarge root cells, on which they feed. The roots become defective and therefore cannot transport water and nutrients properly. The end result is stunted, wilted, and yellowing plants (characteristic of nutrient deficiency) and a decreased yield. Severity of the symptoms depends on nematode population density and host plant species and cultivar. As the number of nematodes increase in the area, the number and size of root galls increase as well. Each crop responds to Meloidogyne hapla differently. Carrots typically undergo severe forking with galling of the roots, lettuce have beadlike galls, and grasses and onions have small and barely noticeable galls and symptoms. In potato tubers (special stems), brown spots will appear on areas of the tubers where the females have laid their eggs.If a field has a patchy distribution of symptoms, it usually indicates the presence of nematodes. Most nematodes are not usually distributed uniformly in the soil. To correctly identify Meloidogyne hapla, the infected plant should be sent to a lab for a proper diagnosis. One common method is perineal pattern analysis where the perineum of the female nematode (area between the anus and the vulva) is examined for a specific pattern in ridges and annulations. Another common method is analyzing isozyme (different variations of the same enzyme produced by different genes) electrophoretic profiles using esterase and malate dehydrogenase.	 hop Meloidogyne hapla

Plants affected by M. incognita present above ground symptoms of water- and nutrient-stress, yellowing, wilting, and stunting. Below ground galling on roots, bulbs, tubers is the typical symptom. Plant death may occur in high infestation level.	 hop Meloidogyne incognita

Because there are so many different hosts for this pathogen, the symptoms are very variable. Common symptoms include abnormal leaf color, abnormal leaf form, wilting leaves, galls, swollen roots, reduced root system, dwarfing and senescence (Cabi 2018). This pathogen does the most damage when present in light soils with hot weather conditions (Alford 2012).	 hop Meloidogyne javanica

Phoma herbarum and P. exigua have both been found to have wide host specificity, although the hop plant appears to be the only common host of the two. There have not been any indications found of cultivar specificity, although hop yards established for a longer time may have a higher risk of Phoma infection .  Symptoms of infection typically begin with small chlorotic leaf spots and develop into greyish brown lesions that have a distinct target or concentric ring appearance. In some instances, the lesions may also be greyish white in color. Infection of the hop cones will produce brown or red discoloration covering some or all of the bracts of the hop cone. This discoloration is an indication of necrosis on the cones. The plant may also develop cankers or wilt, but this is not seen in all cases. Phoma wilt of hops may be diagnosed by its characteristic symptoms or by isolation and DNA sequencing of the pathogen against known genomes.Interestingly, P. herbarum and P. exigua have also both been considered as bioherbicide agents against some species of broadleaf weeds.	 hop Phoma wilt

All cultivated species of the genus Prunus, which includes plums, cherries, apricots, almonds, and peaches, are susceptible to one or more strains of PNRSV. Hops and rose are also susceptible to infection by the virus. Other susceptible hosts used for diagnosis include Chenopodium quinoa Willd., sunflower (Helianthus annus), and Momordica balsamina.Symptoms on orchard trees can include death of buds and roots, reduced tree survival and uniformity, and increased susceptibility to winter injury. Some common symptoms also include necrotic “shot holes” in leaves or rugosity and mosaic symptoms. In sweet cherries, PNRSV causes reduced leaf size and produces diffused chlorotic rings and/or spots. Generally, symptoms of PNRSV appear in the year following infection, and then becomes symptomless, although some strains cause recurrent symptoms annually. Although adult trees can show recovery from initial symptoms, keeping young trees virus-free is important because the virus can cause long-lasting stunting compared to healthy trees.  It is important to note that symptom severity varies due to host cultivar and viral isolate.	 hop Prunus necrotic ringspot virus

Downy mildew on hops is caused by the pathogen Pseudoperonospora humuli, an oomycete protist. P. humuli is an obligate biotrophic pathogen, meaning that it can only live and grow in living host tissue. P. humuli, like most downy mildews, is highly host-specific and thus will only infect hop (Humulus lupulus) and also Japanese hop (Humulus japonicas).The most characteristic symptom of hop downy mildew are the “basal spikes” that form on the plant. These structures result from systemically infected shoots and are “stunted and have brittle, downward-curled leaves from which masses of purple to black sporangiophores and sporangia are produced.” These spikes can exist as three distinct types:1)      “Primary spikes”, which arise from infected hop crowns2)      “Secondary spikes”, which arise from infected apical meristems3)      “Aerial spikes”, which occur on lateral branches or trained vinesPrimary and secondary spikes result in stunting shoots and brittle leaves. Primary spikes also cause shortened internodes. Aerial spikes adversely affect the development of the plant, resulting in bines (the long, flexible stem the plant uses to climb) falling away from the string on which hops is allowed to climb. Infected leaves and cones show symptoms as well. Infected leaves will change color, ranging from purple-gray to black downy growth. Infected cones become hard and brown and display disrupted development.	 hop Pseudoperonospora humuli

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 hop Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

The pathogen that causes powdery mildew of hops was once considered to be Sphaerotheca macularis, which is capable of infecting many plants; however, in recent years, the pathogen that causes powdery mildew of hops has been taxonomically classified as Podosphaera macularis. This ascomycete is only known to be pathogenic on hop plants, including both ornamental and wild hops, and Cannabis sativa. The host range of many Podosphaera macularis strains is restricted by the existence of resistant hop varieties, such as the “Nugget” variety of Washington state and Oregon, although in recent years, resistance within this hop variety has been overcome in the laboratory. When disease does occur, early symptoms include chlorotic spots on the leaves of hop plants. Spots may fade to gray or white as the season progresses. Signs include white clusters of hyphae, which are often present on the leaves, and in some cases can infect the cone itself. If this infection occurs, a brown, necrotic lesion may develop. When both mating types exist within a population, chleistothecia can form and are visible as small, black dots on the undersides of leaves.	 hop Sphaerotheca humuli

The pathogen that causes powdery mildew of hops was once considered to be Sphaerotheca macularis, which is capable of infecting many plants; however, in recent years, the pathogen that causes powdery mildew of hops has been taxonomically classified as Podosphaera macularis. This ascomycete is only known to be pathogenic on hop plants, including both ornamental and wild hops, and Cannabis sativa. The host range of many Podosphaera macularis strains is restricted by the existence of resistant hop varieties, such as the “Nugget” variety of Washington state and Oregon, although in recent years, resistance within this hop variety has been overcome in the laboratory. When disease does occur, early symptoms include chlorotic spots on the leaves of hop plants. Spots may fade to gray or white as the season progresses. Signs include white clusters of hyphae, which are often present on the leaves, and in some cases can infect the cone itself. If this infection occurs, a brown, necrotic lesion may develop. When both mating types exist within a population, chleistothecia can form and are visible as small, black dots on the undersides of leaves.	 hop Sphaerotheca macularis

There are many strains of Verticillium dahliae which are categorized into vegetative compatibility groups (VCG). These groups comprise strains that are able to exchange genetic material via anastomosis. Each VCG affects a few or only one host and the virulence of the pathogen varies by host. While individual V. dahliae strains are relatively host specific, as a species it has a wide range.Verticillium dahliae has a very wide host range, affecting over 300 plant species. Some susceptible crops include Brussels sprouts, cabbage, eggplant, cucumbers, mint, pepper, potatoes, pumpkin, spinach, tomato, watermelon, honeydew, and cantaloupe. Of these, tomato, potato, and eggplant have resistant or tolerant varieties.Symptoms of this disease are seen throughout the plant. Leaves may have abnormal coloration, necrotic areas, wilt, and/or fall off the plant. The stem may have discolored vascular tissue, exhibit rosetting (shortened internodes of the plant caused by reduced growth, resulting in a rosette-like appearance), and/or be stunted. Early senescence and dieback may also occur.Microsclerotia can be seen under a lens as small black structures in the vasculature of living and dead plants. This feature can be used to distinguish V. dahliae from V. albo-atrum, the other verticillium wilt pathogen.	 hop Verticillium dahliae

The symptoms that plants exhibit in response to the pathogenicity of Xiphinema americanum are similar to those of other migratory ectoparasitic nematodes of roots. It is common to see poor growth and or stunting of the plant, yellowing or wilting of the foliage, and reduced root systems which can include root necrosis, lack of feeder or secondary roots, and occasional tufts of stubby rootlets.Young, shortleaved yellow pine trees with moderate swelling of roots with clusters of short, stubby branches were the first demonstration of X. americanum pathogenicity in 1955. X. americanum can also cause severe effects on foliage, sometimes causing chlorosis and complete defoliation as seen on Guatemalan coffee trees. The dagger nematode causes the devitalization of root tips and overall root death when they feed at the root tips and root sides of strawberry plants. Reddish-brown lesions that turn black and necrotic with time result at the sites of feeding, and result in reduced root systems and stunted tops.Xiphinema americanum is listed as a C-rated pest in California due to its wide host range of California crops. C-rated pests are widespread, and are of known economic or environmental detriment, according to The California Department of Food and Agriculture. Due to X. americanum's difficulty in maintaining high populations in frequently tilled soils (see Control), the dagger nematode is mainly an economic problem on biennial and perennial crops rather than annual crops (except for damage to emerging seedlings).	 hop Xiphinema americanum

Symptoms appear as dirty white, circular, floury patches on either sides of the leaves.Under favourable environmental conditions, entire leaves, stems, floral parts and pods are affected.The whole leaf may be covered with powdery mass.If persistent, mild chlorosis or necrosis can also occur.	 hydrangea Erysiphe polygoni

Pseudomonas cichorii is non-host specific as it does not infect just one host. Its host range includes lettuce, pepper, celery, coffee, wheat, basil and several other host plants. Symptoms of the causal agent vary depending on the host and the area of the plant infected. In general, pseudomonas cichorii is seen to cause leaf blighting and spotting. The first appearance of symptoms involves a water soaked lesion that develops at the edge of the leaf, midvein or randomly across the leaf  These lesions progressively turn black or brown and may be surrounded by yellow halos. These lesions also often “coalesce and progress to severe leaf blight under favorable conditions for the bacterium.” When the infected leaves become dry, the spots often look brittle and crack.	 hydrangea Pseudomonas cichorii

TSWV infects a variety of hosts, contributing to its global economic impact on crops. There are over a thousand different hosts for TSWV. The host range of TSWV includes agronomically important crops like tomatoes and tobacco. The symptoms of TSWV vary from host to host. There is also variability of symptoms within a single type of host due to the age of the plant, nutrition and the environment (especially temperature). Common symptoms include stunting, ringspots on fruit and necrosis of leaves. There are many different strains of TSWV, and differences in symptoms may also be attributed to the differences in the number of strains present.	 hydrangea Tomato spotted wilt virus

This virus was first characterized in cucumbers (Cucumis sativus) showing mosaic symptoms in 1934, hence the name Cucumber mosaic. Since then, it has been found to infect a great variety of other plants. These include other vegetables such as squash, melons, peppers, eggplants, tomatoes, beans, carrots, celery, lettuce, spinach, beets, many ornamentals and bedding plants, such as Narcissus, and various weeds. Its presence has been confirmed on every continent of the world, including Antarctica.Symptoms seen with this virus include leaf mosaic or mottling (Fig. 1), yellowing, ringspots, stunting, and leaf, flower and fruit distortion. CMV also induces a type of symptom on leaves known as the "shoestring" effect on many host species. This effect causes young leaves to appear narrow and the entire plant to be stunted.Specifically, CMV can cause cucumbers to turn pale and bumpy. The leaves of these plants turn mosaic and their rugosity is often changed, making leaves wrinkled and misshapen. Growth of these plants is usually also stunted and produces few flowers. Often, cucumber fruits are oddly shaped, appear gray, and tested bitter. These appearances lead to them being referred to as "white pickles".Tomato plants are usually stunted and have poorly shaped leaves, or "fernleaf", when infected by CMV. Also certain strains of CMV can cause partial or total crop loss. CMV in peppers causes slightly different symptoms than the previously mentioned. Pepper plants often have severe foliar damage, shown as mosaic and necrotic rings. Often the peppers themselves are misshapen and contain chlorotic rings and spots. In celery, CMV causes streaking and spotting and can be often confused with symptoms of the celery mosaic virus. Symptoms of CMV in lettuce, such as chlorosis, plant stunting and often do not properly head, can be very similar to those of lettuce mosaic virus.CMV has also been identified in a lesser extent to a number of plant species. It is found to be a minor virus infecting Allium crops. The virus infection causes extensive malformation on garlic plants, and mild malformation to severe necrotic streaks on onion leaves. The severe damages on garlic plants and difficulty of aphids transmission of garlic isolate, were possible causal for the rare CMV on garlic. Genetically, the two onion isolates from Turkey (CMV-14.3Po and CMV-15.5Po) are highly similar to others isolated from various plant species in Mediterranean, European, and East Asian countries. CMV was also detected on American beautyberry, an important wildlife and pollinator food source plant native to North America.In plant tissue this virus makes characteristic viral inclusion bodies which can be diagnostic. They are hexagonal in shape (Fig. 2) and stain both in a protein stain and a nucleic acid stain. The inclusions can also be rhomboidal, may appear hollow (Fig. 2) and can form larger aggregates. The inclusions are not uniformly distributed and can be found in epidermal (Fig. 2), mesophyll, and stomatal cells. These inclusions are made up of virus particles.			 impatiens Cucumber mosaic virus

INSV has a wide host range and can be found in over 300 plant species including weeds, fruits, vegetables and ornamental crops. Of these, the most severely affected include tomatoes, lettuce, pepper and peppermint as well as most all ornamentals. Symptoms of infection include a downward curling of the leaves, leaf tip dieback, stunting, necrosis of growing leaf tips, sunken ‘chicken pox-like’ spots on leaves (often with a surrounding halo), stem death and yellowing.  Since these symptoms are so generic, extreme caution must be taken when introducing new plants to your greenhouse. Infected plants can not be cured and not all hosts display visible symptoms Western Flower Thrips are extremely hard to remove from their host plants, as they often dig themselves deep into blossoms, buds and other areas hard to reach with insecticides. So, even if plants are sprayed regularly with insecticide, INSV and other insect vectored viruses can not always be ruled out when forming diagnosis.Temperature and host both play an important factor when discussing the symptoms which an INSV infected plant will display. When New Guinea Impatiens are cultivated in an environment varying between 75 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit the host plant will be highly symptomatic. However, when New Guinea Impatiens are grown in an environment just 10 degrees cooler it is unlikely for there to be any observable symptoms of disease.	 impatiens Impatiens necrotic spot virus

These nematodes cause symptoms both on leaves and roots. Foliar symptoms of root-knot disease may be expressed at any time during the growing season. These symptoms of nematode damage on peanut plants range from stunting, yellowing, wilting and even plant death.  Ferris (1999–2012), also reported that nematodes cause yellowing; mid-day wilting; symptoms of water and nutrient stress; and sometimes death, especially if the nematode is interacting with other organisms.  They can appear in a peanut crop beginning about 100 days after planting or after periods of dry hot weather.  Areas of root-knot nematode damaged peanut are usually round to oblong in shape, and rows of infected plants may never overlap as those of healthy plants. It is common for plants to wilt and eventually die in areas where nematode populations are high.Root symptoms are similar to those caused by all nematodes including a reduction in number of feeder roots and root stunting, but root knot nematodes cause unique symptoms on roots and pods. Nematodes cause galls (knots) to form on both roots and pods of the peanut, and these galls are highly diagnostic for root-knot nematode presence compared to other nematodes affecting peanut. The presence of galls on roots, pegs and pods appears as single or multiple wart-like growths that may or may not be discolored. As root knot nematode infection progresses, and generally later in the season, secondary root and pod rots cause further damage and eventual death of the plants.Many soil-borne fungi, especially Sclerotium rolfsii (which causes southern stem rot) and Sclerotinia minor (which causes Sclerotinia blight), will infect the weakened peanut plants and cause more plant death. Root knot nematode infection of the peg weakens the peg so that it breaks during harvest, contributing to additional yield losses because the detached pods are then left in the soil. Infection of the pods leads to a decline in yield quality.The damage threshold, or the initial nematode population density at which peanut yields begin to decline, has been reported to be in the range of 1 to 10 eggs and second stage juveniles per 500 cm3 soil for M. arenaria on susceptible peanut cultivars.	 impatiens Meloidogyne arenaria

Initially, leaves are stippled or yellowed. Infected leaves curl downward. A white down is often present on the underside of the leaves; buds and stems may also develop a down. Eventually, the leaves fall off the plant leaving just stems.  In about a week, the plants are dead.	 impatiens Plasmopara obducens

Pythium aphanidermatum is responsible for pre- and post-emergence damping off.  Pre-emergence damping off is when the seed is infected prior to germination.  This can result in poor or no germination, and is observable as a browning or rotting of the seed.  Post-emergence damping off takes place after germination and results in a thinning, water-soaked stem near the plant collar, which eventually causes the collapse of the plant.  P. aphanidermatum can also cause root rot.  Symptoms of root rot include stunted growth, chlorotic leaves, leaf drop, and wilting.  The infection begins at the root tip, and can cause the infected region to lose its protective outer layer, exposing the inner root to other pathogens	 impatiens Pythium aphanidermatum

Pythium irregulare is an oomycete that causes pre- and post-emergence damping off, as well as root rot. Pre-emergence damping off occurs when P. irregulare infects seeds before they emerge, causing them to rot and turn brown, thus preventing successful growth. Alternatively, post-emergence damping off occurs when the oomycete infects just after the seed has germinated. This usually causes infection in the roots and stem which appears as water soaking and necrosis. Depending on the severity, plants may collapse or be severely stunted. In plants that are older and more established, P. irregulare causes root rot. This will initially cause necrotic lesions, which leads to chlorosis, reduced yield, poor growth, and stunting due to inadequate water and nutrient acquisition by the roots. Additionally, P. irregulare is often found coinfecting with other Pythium species. All three of these diseases caused by P. irregulare can be caused by other pathogens as well, so a disease diagnosis is not necessarily indicative of P. irregulareIn order to identify Pythium irregulare it is necessary to isolate the organism and observe it microscopically. First, it is important to identify that the microbe is an oomycete by looking for characteristics that are specific to oomycetes, such as coenocytic hyphae, zoospores, and oospores. After that, one can identify the microbe as being in the genera Pythium by observing disease symptoms, host range, as well as the presence of a vesicle, where zoospores form, which is attached to the sporangia. In contrast, most other oomycetes do not have a vesicle and the zoospores form in the sporangia. Finally, once the genera has been identified, it is helpful to use a dichotomous key to identify the species. Some of the key identifiers for P. irregulare include oogonia with irregular shaped, cylindrical projections, sporangia that occur singly, sporangia that are not filamentous, and oogonia smaller than 30 μm. There are also many genomic tests that can be done to determine species based on specific DNA markers. It is also important to note that many diagnosticians do not identify to the species level because it can be difficult to find all necessary microscopic structures and many management techniques can be applied to all Pythium species.Pythium irregulare has a very broad host range, including many agronomically and horticulturally important crops and is found on every continent except for Antarctica. P. irregulare infects over 200 species, including cereals, legumes, fruits, vegetables, and ornamentals. It differs from many other Pythium species in that it prefers cooler environments. A moist environment is also necessary for disease, which aids motility of spores. It is commonly found in both greenhouses and fields.	 impatiens Pythium irregulare

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 impatiens Rhizoctonia solani

TSV has been reported worldwide in North and South America, Europe, India, Japan, Australia, New Zealand and South America. TSV has a wide host range including both monocots and dicots.  Economically important crop hosts include peanuts, sunflower, soybean, cranberry, cotton, chickpea and mung beans.  As with many plant viruses, diagnosis is very difficult because TSV has very wide host range and has different effects depending on the host being infected. Symptoms of TSV may include black streaks on stems and leaves, stunted growth, chlorosis, leaf mosaic, lodging, and deformed growing tips, to name a few. On tobacco plants, TSV causes chlorosis, with a unique pattern of white or dark necrotic leaf tissue close to the veins of the leaf.  As its name implies, necrotic streaks are found on leaf veins of infected plants.  Symptoms are strongly influenced by temperature.  For example, plants experiencing a temperature of 20° Celsius will develop small necrotic spots while at temperatures above 30° Celsius, necrotic spots will become large necrotic arcs. Symptoms are not sufficient to correctly identify TSV - serology and PCR techniques are required.	 impatiens Tobacco streak virus

TSWV infects a variety of hosts, contributing to its global economic impact on crops. There are over a thousand different hosts for TSWV. The host range of TSWV includes agronomically important crops like tomatoes and tobacco. The symptoms of TSWV vary from host to host. There is also variability of symptoms within a single type of host due to the age of the plant, nutrition and the environment (especially temperature). Common symptoms include stunting, ringspots on fruit and necrosis of leaves. There are many different strains of TSWV, and differences in symptoms may also be attributed to the differences in the number of strains present.	 impatiens Tomato spotted wilt virus

There are a variety of hosts including but not limited to; banana, beans, cabbage, carrot, cassava, coffee, corn, cotton, onion, other crucifers, pepper, potato, sweet potato and tomato. Pandanus conoideus and karuka (Pandanus julianettii) get bacterial soft rot and necrosis on the leaves from Pectobacterium carotovorum subsp. carotovorum. For each host there are different symptoms displayed. Most symptoms are along the lines of watery and soft decay of the tissue. Cabbage and crucifers' symptoms start where the tissue makes contact with the soil. Often there is a change in color and in the case of a carrot, the whole taproot can be decayed leaving just the epidermis. Sweet potatoes show clear lesions that grow rapidly leaving a recognizable watery and soft, oozy tissue where only the peel remains intact.Potatoes experience a cream to tan colored tuber that becomes very soft and watery. A characteristic black border separates the diseased area and the healthy tissue. Only when the secondary organism invades the infected tissue does that decay become slimy with a foul odor. Like the carrot, the whole tuber can be consumed leaving just the epidermis in the soil. The foliage becomes weak and chlorotic with upward turned leaves and lesions on the stem. The stem also rots and becomes mushy with its colorless or brown lesions.	 kalanchoe Bacterial soft rot

Botryosphaeria ribis is an ascomycete plant pathogen that primarily affects woody hosts in a number of temperate and tropical regions. The susceptible hosts include a number of economically important plants such as apple, peach, almond, banana, and walnut trees, among others.  The disease is noted by cankers, leaf spots, and necrosis, as well as twig dieback. On healthy leaves, the necrosis begins apically at the margins, extending back along the midrib, occasionally reaching the base and causing complete blight of the leaf.  Twig dieback also starts apically and works towards the center of the plant.  It is characterized by a slow necrosis of the branch, leaving large, dead limbs on the upper portions of trees.  Under the microscope, it can be identified by its immersed, pyriform perithecia (pear-shaped, spore-containing structures), which have a brown exterior wall.  The ascospores within the perithecia are ellipsoid in shape, with a smooth exterior and granular cytoplasm.  The anamorph (asexual stage) of B. ribis is Fusicoccum ribis, and although less abundant, it is characterized by globose pycnidia containing smooth, hyaline macro- and microconidia.  These symptoms have the potential to significantly decrease yield or kill the host.	 kalanchoe Botryosphaeria ribis

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 kalanchoe Colletotrichum gloeosporioides

D. dadantii is phytopathogenic bacterium causing soft rot diseases on many host plants including some which are economically important. D. dadantii, more commonly known as: soft rot, brown rot or blackleg, causes characteristic symptoms associated with other bacterial wilts, causing final diagnosis to be difficult. The pathogen primarily seeks to attack the plant's xylem vessels located in leaves, stems, blossoms and storage organs of herbaceous plants. D. dadantii is able to infect hosts at any point in its life cycle. In addition to symptoms of wilt, the disease appears as sunken and cracked external lesions also having a brown interior in cross section in subterranean bulbs and tubers Diseased plants will display a variety of symptoms including: wilting, stunting and vascular discoloration of the stems. Early symptoms include water soaked lesions at the site of infection, gradually expanding chlorotic leaves and loss of turgor in tissues. The intensity of D. dadantii colonization relates to the amount of disease and degree of damage. The pathogen is very successful at infiltrating host tissues due to the many pectinases responsible for disassembly of plant cell wall polysaccharides. Once the cell wall is degraded cellular structure collapses and this cell maceration gives a characteristic "water-soaked" or rotted appearance. D. dadantii grow intercellularly, continuing to degrade cells and colonize, until it eventually reaches xylem tissues. Upon reaching the xylem vessels D. dadantii possesses the ability to spread to new regions of the host and other areas may begin to display symptoms. Colonization within the xylem restricts flow of water causing loss of turgor pressure and wilting of foliage and stems. Restricted movement of important plant compounds eventually lead to death of the host.	 kalanchoe Dickeya dadantii

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 kalanchoe Glomerella cingulata

INSV has a wide host range and can be found in over 300 plant species including weeds, fruits, vegetables and ornamental crops. Of these, the most severely affected include tomatoes, lettuce, pepper and peppermint as well as most all ornamentals. Symptoms of infection include a downward curling of the leaves, leaf tip dieback, stunting, necrosis of growing leaf tips, sunken ‘chicken pox-like’ spots on leaves (often with a surrounding halo), stem death and yellowing.  Since these symptoms are so generic, extreme caution must be taken when introducing new plants to your greenhouse. Infected plants can not be cured and not all hosts display visible symptoms Western Flower Thrips are extremely hard to remove from their host plants, as they often dig themselves deep into blossoms, buds and other areas hard to reach with insecticides. So, even if plants are sprayed regularly with insecticide, INSV and other insect vectored viruses can not always be ruled out when forming diagnosis.Temperature and host both play an important factor when discussing the symptoms which an INSV infected plant will display. When New Guinea Impatiens are cultivated in an environment varying between 75 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit the host plant will be highly symptomatic. However, when New Guinea Impatiens are grown in an environment just 10 degrees cooler it is unlikely for there to be any observable symptoms of disease.	 kalanchoe Impatiens necrotic spot virus

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 kalanchoe Lasiodiplodia theobromae

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 kalanchoe Rhizoctonia solani

Powdery mildew is manifest on the plant by white powdery fungal growth on the surface of the leaf, usually both sides of the leaf show fungal growth. The host tissue is frequently stunted, distorted, discolored, and scarred. The fruit of infected plants are usually smaller and the flavor is affected negatively, as fewer sugars and solids are stored in the fruit.	 kalanchoe Sphaerotheca fuliginea

TSWV infects a variety of hosts, contributing to its global economic impact on crops. There are over a thousand different hosts for TSWV. The host range of TSWV includes agronomically important crops like tomatoes and tobacco. The symptoms of TSWV vary from host to host. There is also variability of symptoms within a single type of host due to the age of the plant, nutrition and the environment (especially temperature). Common symptoms include stunting, ringspots on fruit and necrosis of leaves. There are many different strains of TSWV, and differences in symptoms may also be attributed to the differences in the number of strains present.	 kalanchoe Tomato spotted wilt virus

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 lentil Alternaria alternata

Hosts of Aphanomyces euteiches can be annuals or perennials in the legume family, including: pea (Pisum sativum), alfalfa (Medicago sativa), snap bean and red kidney bean (Phaseolus vulgaris), faba bean (Vicia faba), red clover (Trifolium pratense), and white clover (Trifolium repens).  Of particular concern is Aphanomyces euteiches f.sp. pisi, which is responsible for pea root rot and is the most economically damaging form of pea root rot.  In North America, genetically distinct populations of A. euteiches demonstrate host specificity, but such specificity has not been observed in Europe.Because A. euteiches is a root-infecting pathogen, primary symptoms occur on roots and stem tissue below the soil line.  Infected roots often appear gray and water-soaked, eventually becoming soft and honey-brown or blackish-brown in appearance.  Infection causes a reduction in root volume and function, including reduced nodulation, leading to decreased water and nutrient up-take, which lead to above-ground secondary symptoms.  Symptoms in the above-ground plant tissue can include chlorosis of the cotyledons and necrosis of the epicotyls and/or hypocotyls, stunting, and wilting of foliage.  Some symptoms can differ among hosts.  Infected plants and patterns of infection in the field often correspond to areas in the field with poor soil drainage, which can be the result of soil compaction, soil texture (high clay content), or excessive wetness due to irrigation or rainfall.  Symptoms are generally similar among infected legumes, however timing and pattern of disease can differ among hosts and between annuals and perennials.  In both peas and beans, lesions tend to progress up the plant tissue, starting with the epicotyls and moving to the hypocotyls, eventually extending above the soil.  Lesions on pea epicotyls turn black, eventually creating a pinched region above the cotyledons as the result of pinched tissue.  Lesions on beans, on the other hand, have a characteristic water-soaked appearance, are grayish-green in color, and are firm to the touch.  In alfalfa symptoms include chlorotic cotyledons which may eventually become necrotic.Although the symptoms caused by A. euteiches can be difficult to distinguish from symptoms caused by other root-infecting plant pathogens (such as Pythium, Rhizoctonia, and Fusarium), there are some distinct differences.  Aphanomyces root rot rarely results in seed rot and/or pre-emergent damping-off.  The characteristic lesions caused by the different pathogens also differ.  Fusarium infection results in black or reddish vascular tissue, and Rhizoctonia infection results in sunken, cankerous lesions.A. euteiches exhibits no macroscopic signs, but oogonia and oospores can be seen in root tissue with a compound microscope.	 lentil Aphanomyces euteiches

Cercospora leaf spots of cowpea begin as small, lighter coloured areas, almost yellow. Later they become bronze to dark grey, roughly circular to more elongated and up to 10 mm across [3]. There will be chlorotic spots on upper surfaces of leaves, masses of spores on lesions which resemble black mats on lower leaf surface, and necrotic spots on leaves [7]. The leaf spot has a unique grey to dark powdery appearance that can distinct it from septoria leafspot and ascochyta blight. The leaf withers as the spots join together. Leaves then die and fall off [3]. In severe cases, only a few new leaves on the top of the plant are left [4]. More signs can be found under microscope [6]: Conidia can be taken from the black mats on lower leaf surface of infected leaves. These obclavate-cylindrical and slightly flexuous conidia have 4 to 9 septa, appearing as smooth, colourless to olivaceous brown, of size 35-155 × 4–4.5 μm. Asci, when sighted, are fasciculate, cylindric-clavate, and bitunicate. 8-spored, size 35-60 × 7-15 μm. Ascospores colourless, 1-septate, upper cell sometimes slightly larger than the lower cell, straight to slightly curved, size at 11-19 × 3-4 μm.	 lentil Cercospora cruenta

Symptoms appear as dark red to black lesions on the lower surface of the leaves. They appear as sunken lesions surrounded by a raised brown-black border on the pods, petioles and stems. Very small black fruiting bodies of the fungus are usually visible in older lesions.Other symptoms include shedding of leaves, flower and pod abortion.Infected seeds appear discoloured with brown or grey staining or dark flecks.	 lentil Colletotrichum truncatum

This virus was first characterized in cucumbers (Cucumis sativus) showing mosaic symptoms in 1934, hence the name Cucumber mosaic. Since then, it has been found to infect a great variety of other plants. These include other vegetables such as squash, melons, peppers, eggplants, tomatoes, beans, carrots, celery, lettuce, spinach, beets, many ornamentals and bedding plants, such as Narcissus, and various weeds. Its presence has been confirmed on every continent of the world, including Antarctica.Symptoms seen with this virus include leaf mosaic or mottling (Fig. 1), yellowing, ringspots, stunting, and leaf, flower and fruit distortion. CMV also induces a type of symptom on leaves known as the "shoestring" effect on many host species. This effect causes young leaves to appear narrow and the entire plant to be stunted.Specifically, CMV can cause cucumbers to turn pale and bumpy. The leaves of these plants turn mosaic and their rugosity is often changed, making leaves wrinkled and misshapen. Growth of these plants is usually also stunted and produces few flowers. Often, cucumber fruits are oddly shaped, appear gray, and tested bitter. These appearances lead to them being referred to as "white pickles".Tomato plants are usually stunted and have poorly shaped leaves, or "fernleaf", when infected by CMV. Also certain strains of CMV can cause partial or total crop loss. CMV in peppers causes slightly different symptoms than the previously mentioned. Pepper plants often have severe foliar damage, shown as mosaic and necrotic rings. Often the peppers themselves are misshapen and contain chlorotic rings and spots. In celery, CMV causes streaking and spotting and can be often confused with symptoms of the celery mosaic virus. Symptoms of CMV in lettuce, such as chlorosis, plant stunting and often do not properly head, can be very similar to those of lettuce mosaic virus.CMV has also been identified in a lesser extent to a number of plant species. It is found to be a minor virus infecting Allium crops. The virus infection causes extensive malformation on garlic plants, and mild malformation to severe necrotic streaks on onion leaves. The severe damages on garlic plants and difficulty of aphids transmission of garlic isolate, were possible causal for the rare CMV on garlic. Genetically, the two onion isolates from Turkey (CMV-14.3Po and CMV-15.5Po) are highly similar to others isolated from various plant species in Mediterranean, European, and East Asian countries. CMV was also detected on American beautyberry, an important wildlife and pollinator food source plant native to North America.In plant tissue this virus makes characteristic viral inclusion bodies which can be diagnostic. They are hexagonal in shape (Fig. 2) and stain both in a protein stain and a nucleic acid stain. The inclusions can also be rhomboidal, may appear hollow (Fig. 2) and can form larger aggregates. The inclusions are not uniformly distributed and can be found in epidermal (Fig. 2), mesophyll, and stomatal cells. These inclusions are made up of virus particles.			 lentil Cucumber mosaic virus

D. dipsaci has an extensive host range. Major damage occurs in garlic, onion, carrot, fava bean, alfalfa, oats, and strawberry. Ornamental plants can also be infected including hyacinth and tulip. It is estimated that this pathogen infects 400–500 plant species worldwide.In Allium species (onions, garlic, and leeks), infected plants show characteristic symptoms including stunted growth, yellow spots, leaf curl, and foliage lesions. Stems often have swollen regions called “spikkles.” As adult nematodes migrate into the scales of the bulb, and the scales become soft, grey, and loosely packed. Highly infected bulbs can also split apart or show malformed bloating. The leaves of the plant become flaccid and may collapse. This can lead to defoliated plants. Garlic shows similar symptoms of leaf yellowing and stunted bulbs. When harvested, the infected garlic may be missing portions of the root system.In fava beans (Vicia faba), symptoms of infection include reddish-brown stem lesions that can turn black. Young bean pods are dark-brown. Infected seeds are smaller and distorted compared to healthy beans. Speckles and spots are also commonly seen on infected fava beans.Up to 30 biological races occur within D. dipsaci that are mostly distinguished by their host preferences. Very little morphological differences are seen between the races which makes diagnosis difficult. Seed material samples from infected plants can be dissected and viewed under a microscope to confirm the correct race.	 lentil Ditylenchus dipsaci

Symptoms appear as dirty white, circular, floury patches on either sides of the leaves.Under favourable environmental conditions, entire leaves, stems, floral parts and pods are affected.The whole leaf may be covered with powdery mass.If persistent, mild chlorosis or necrosis can also occur.	 lentil Erysiphe polygoni

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 lentil Fusarium solani

L. taurica is the pathogen responsible for powdery mildew on onions, but it can also infect peppers, tomatoes, eggplant, cotton, and garlic. While L. taurica can infect many different plants it is actually very host specific. Different races of L. taurica can only infect certain crops, and even specific cultivars within the same crop. An accurate way to describe its host specificity is that this disease is, “a composite species consisting of many host-specific races." Symptoms of Onion Powdery Mildew (OPM) are usually seen as circular or oblong lesions that are 5 to 20 mm and have a chlorotic or necrotic appearance. The lesions appear on older leaves before the bulb of the onion begins to form, but also can occur on the younger leaves towards the end of the season. As the disease progresses signs of OPM can also be seen. On the lesions white mycelium can be found with conidiophores bearing either lanceolate or rounded condia.	 lentil Leveillula taurica

One of the most harmful seed and soil borne pathogens, Macrophomina phaseolina is a fungus that infects nearly 500 plant species in more than 100 families. The hosts include: peanut, cabbage, pepper, chickpea, soybean, sunflower, sweet potato, alfalfa, sesame, potato, sorghum, wheat, and corn, among others. The identification of isolates of M. phaseolina is usually based on morphology and efforts to divide the pathogen into subspecies, but because there are wide intraspecific variations in the phenotype of the isolates, these criteria are often not reliable. The failure to correctly detect and identify M. phaseolina using conventional culture-based morphological techniques has led scientists to develop nucleic acid-based molecular approaches, such as highly sensitive and specific polymerase chain reaction-based methods. Researchers have also recently created species-specific oligonucleotide primers and digoxigenin-labeled probes in hopes of better identifying and detecting M. phaseolina.The pathogen M. phaseolina affects the fibrovascular system of the roots and basal internodes of its host, impeding the transport of water and nutrients to the upper parts of the plant. As a result, progressive wilting, premature dying, loss of vigor, and reduced yield are characteristic symptoms of M. phaseolina infection. The fungus also causes many diseases like damping off, seedling blight, collar rot, stem rot, charcoal rot, basal stem rot, and root rot. Although brown lesions may form on the hypocotyls or emerging seedlings, many symptoms occur during or after flowering, including grey discoloration of the stem and taproots, shredding of plant tissue in the stem and top of the taproot, and hollowing of the stem. Small black dots may form beneath the epidermis of the lower stem and in the taproot, giving the stems and roots a charcoal-sprinkled appearance. When the epidermis is removed, small and black microsclerotia (a sign of the disease) may be so numerous that they give a greyish-black tint to the plant tissue. In addition, reddish-brown discoloration and black streaks can form in the pith and vascular tissues of the root and stem.	 lentil Macrophomina phaseolina

Plants affected by M. incognita present above ground symptoms of water- and nutrient-stress, yellowing, wilting, and stunting. Below ground galling on roots, bulbs, tubers is the typical symptom. Plant death may occur in high infestation level.	 lentil Meloidogyne incognita

Because there are so many different hosts for this pathogen, the symptoms are very variable. Common symptoms include abnormal leaf color, abnormal leaf form, wilting leaves, galls, swollen roots, reduced root system, dwarfing and senescence (Cabi 2018). This pathogen does the most damage when present in light soils with hot weather conditions (Alford 2012).	 lentil Meloidogyne javanica

L. taurica is the pathogen responsible for powdery mildew on onions, but it can also infect peppers, tomatoes, eggplant, cotton, and garlic. While L. taurica can infect many different plants it is actually very host specific. Different races of L. taurica can only infect certain crops, and even specific cultivars within the same crop. An accurate way to describe its host specificity is that this disease is, “a composite species consisting of many host-specific races." Symptoms of Onion Powdery Mildew (OPM) are usually seen as circular or oblong lesions that are 5 to 20 mm and have a chlorotic or necrotic appearance. The lesions appear on older leaves before the bulb of the onion begins to form, but also can occur on the younger leaves towards the end of the season. As the disease progresses signs of OPM can also be seen. On the lesions white mycelium can be found with conidiophores bearing either lanceolate or rounded condia.	 lentil Oidiopsis taurica

Peronospora trifoliorum commonly infects numerous strains and varieties of alfalfa. On alfalfa, the primary symptoms of Peronospora trifoliorum are chlorotic leaf blotches that range from light green to yellow-green to gray-green; rolled or downturned leaves; and thickened, stunted stems ending in rosette-like growths. The main method of identifying the disease is by the moldy, downy growth on the underside of leaves that appears white, gray, or light purple as this is a diagnostic sign of downy mildew of alfalfa (Davis, Frate, and Putnam, 2017). Only seedlings and young tissue are susceptible to infection which, with proper cultural controls, can limit the development and progression of the disease. There is also the potential for secondary infection, which can occur every five days during ideal conditions (Goldberg, 2000).Peronospora trifoliorum has been reported from Trifolium repens but it is uncommon.	 lentil Peronospora lentis

Root lesion nematodes infect a great variety of hosts. Pratylenchus penetrans alone has over 350 host plants. They include agricultural crops such as soybeans, potatoes, corn, bananas, and wheat. The genus is found most often in corn. Signs of disease are similar in most plants and generally include necrotic lesions of the roots. The lesions can also be entrances for pathogenic bacteria and fungi, which produce secondary infections. Above ground the plant becomes stunted, chlorotic, and wilted, and it often dies. A crop field may be patchy as plants wither and die. Root lesion nematodes can cause significant yield losses.	 lentil Pratylenchus

Pythium aphanidermatum is responsible for pre- and post-emergence damping off.  Pre-emergence damping off is when the seed is infected prior to germination.  This can result in poor or no germination, and is observable as a browning or rotting of the seed.  Post-emergence damping off takes place after germination and results in a thinning, water-soaked stem near the plant collar, which eventually causes the collapse of the plant.  P. aphanidermatum can also cause root rot.  Symptoms of root rot include stunted growth, chlorotic leaves, leaf drop, and wilting.  The infection begins at the root tip, and can cause the infected region to lose its protective outer layer, exposing the inner root to other pathogens	 lentil Pythium aphanidermatum

One of the most harmful seed and soil borne pathogens, Macrophomina phaseolina is a fungus that infects nearly 500 plant species in more than 100 families. The hosts include: peanut, cabbage, pepper, chickpea, soybean, sunflower, sweet potato, alfalfa, sesame, potato, sorghum, wheat, and corn, among others. The identification of isolates of M. phaseolina is usually based on morphology and efforts to divide the pathogen into subspecies, but because there are wide intraspecific variations in the phenotype of the isolates, these criteria are often not reliable. The failure to correctly detect and identify M. phaseolina using conventional culture-based morphological techniques has led scientists to develop nucleic acid-based molecular approaches, such as highly sensitive and specific polymerase chain reaction-based methods. Researchers have also recently created species-specific oligonucleotide primers and digoxigenin-labeled probes in hopes of better identifying and detecting M. phaseolina.The pathogen M. phaseolina affects the fibrovascular system of the roots and basal internodes of its host, impeding the transport of water and nutrients to the upper parts of the plant. As a result, progressive wilting, premature dying, loss of vigor, and reduced yield are characteristic symptoms of M. phaseolina infection. The fungus also causes many diseases like damping off, seedling blight, collar rot, stem rot, charcoal rot, basal stem rot, and root rot. Although brown lesions may form on the hypocotyls or emerging seedlings, many symptoms occur during or after flowering, including grey discoloration of the stem and taproots, shredding of plant tissue in the stem and top of the taproot, and hollowing of the stem. Small black dots may form beneath the epidermis of the lower stem and in the taproot, giving the stems and roots a charcoal-sprinkled appearance. When the epidermis is removed, small and black microsclerotia (a sign of the disease) may be so numerous that they give a greyish-black tint to the plant tissue. In addition, reddish-brown discoloration and black streaks can form in the pith and vascular tissues of the root and stem.	 lentil Rhizoctonia bataticola

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 lentil Rhizoctonia solani

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 lentil Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 lentil Thanatephorus cucumeris

General symptoms that one can notice while looking at the leaves of a faba bean plant that has this rust disease are that the leaves will have numerous small, orange/brown pustules. These pustules are surrounded by a light yellow halo. The yellow halo is where the plant has blocked the spread of the fungus to healthy cells. The plant does this by killing the diseased plant cells forming the halo. Disease progression can cause leaves to wither and fall off of the plant. The stems of the bean plant are also affected by the rust and show symptoms of the rust pustules but are often bigger than those that are found on the leaf surface.The various stages of Faba bean rust and its different symptoms are as stated:	 lentil Uromyces fabae

General symptoms that one can notice while looking at the leaves of a faba bean plant that has this rust disease are that the leaves will have numerous small, orange/brown pustules. These pustules are surrounded by a light yellow halo. The yellow halo is where the plant has blocked the spread of the fungus to healthy cells. The plant does this by killing the diseased plant cells forming the halo. Disease progression can cause leaves to wither and fall off of the plant. The stems of the bean plant are also affected by the rust and show symptoms of the rust pustules but are often bigger than those that are found on the leaf surface.The various stages of Faba bean rust and its different symptoms are as stated:	 lentil Uromyces viciae-fabae

Aster yellows affects a long list of plant species including native plants, annual flowering plants, ornamentals, weeds, and vegetables crops. The largest family affected is the Asteraceae, and ornamental plants commonly infected are asters, marigolds, coreopsis, sunflowers, and purple coneflower.  Regarding vegetable crops, onion, lettuce, celery, and carrot are affected with the latter suffering the greatest losses.The range of characteristic symptoms varies by the phytoplasma strain, timing of infection, plant species, temperature, age, and size of the plant. The symptoms can be mistaken for herbicide damage or virus symptoms.  They include vein clearing until the entire leaf becomes chlorotic, stunting, deformation, virescence (greening of flowers), phyllody (development of leaf-like flower petals), reddening of foliage, reduced root system, and sterility.  Aster yellows does not typically kill perennial host plants. The symptoms caused by the disease are exacerbated by hot climates while some plants in cooler climates may be asymptomatic.Characteristic symptoms specific to the carrot include initial vein clearing and chlorosis, followed by production of many adventitious shoots, with the tops looking like a witches’-broom.  The internodes of such shoots are short as are the leaf petioles.  Young leaves are smaller and dry up while the petioles of older leaves twist and break off.  Any remaining older leaves turn bronze or red late in the season.  Floral parts are deformed and roots are smaller, abnormally shaped, and have woolly secondary roots.  The carrot roots are predisposed to soft rots in the field and storage and taste unpleasant to the consumer.	 lettuce Aster yellows

There are a variety of hosts including but not limited to; banana, beans, cabbage, carrot, cassava, coffee, corn, cotton, onion, other crucifers, pepper, potato, sweet potato and tomato. Pandanus conoideus and karuka (Pandanus julianettii) get bacterial soft rot and necrosis on the leaves from Pectobacterium carotovorum subsp. carotovorum. For each host there are different symptoms displayed. Most symptoms are along the lines of watery and soft decay of the tissue. Cabbage and crucifers' symptoms start where the tissue makes contact with the soil. Often there is a change in color and in the case of a carrot, the whole taproot can be decayed leaving just the epidermis. Sweet potatoes show clear lesions that grow rapidly leaving a recognizable watery and soft, oozy tissue where only the peel remains intact.Potatoes experience a cream to tan colored tuber that becomes very soft and watery. A characteristic black border separates the diseased area and the healthy tissue. Only when the secondary organism invades the infected tissue does that decay become slimy with a foul odor. Like the carrot, the whole tuber can be consumed leaving just the epidermis in the soil. The foliage becomes weak and chlorotic with upward turned leaves and lesions on the stem. The stem also rots and becomes mushy with its colorless or brown lesions.	 lettuce Bacterial soft rot

This virus was first characterized in cucumbers (Cucumis sativus) showing mosaic symptoms in 1934, hence the name Cucumber mosaic. Since then, it has been found to infect a great variety of other plants. These include other vegetables such as squash, melons, peppers, eggplants, tomatoes, beans, carrots, celery, lettuce, spinach, beets, many ornamentals and bedding plants, such as Narcissus, and various weeds. Its presence has been confirmed on every continent of the world, including Antarctica.Symptoms seen with this virus include leaf mosaic or mottling (Fig. 1), yellowing, ringspots, stunting, and leaf, flower and fruit distortion. CMV also induces a type of symptom on leaves known as the "shoestring" effect on many host species. This effect causes young leaves to appear narrow and the entire plant to be stunted.Specifically, CMV can cause cucumbers to turn pale and bumpy. The leaves of these plants turn mosaic and their rugosity is often changed, making leaves wrinkled and misshapen. Growth of these plants is usually also stunted and produces few flowers. Often, cucumber fruits are oddly shaped, appear gray, and tested bitter. These appearances lead to them being referred to as "white pickles".Tomato plants are usually stunted and have poorly shaped leaves, or "fernleaf", when infected by CMV. Also certain strains of CMV can cause partial or total crop loss. CMV in peppers causes slightly different symptoms than the previously mentioned. Pepper plants often have severe foliar damage, shown as mosaic and necrotic rings. Often the peppers themselves are misshapen and contain chlorotic rings and spots. In celery, CMV causes streaking and spotting and can be often confused with symptoms of the celery mosaic virus. Symptoms of CMV in lettuce, such as chlorosis, plant stunting and often do not properly head, can be very similar to those of lettuce mosaic virus.CMV has also been identified in a lesser extent to a number of plant species. It is found to be a minor virus infecting Allium crops. The virus infection causes extensive malformation on garlic plants, and mild malformation to severe necrotic streaks on onion leaves. The severe damages on garlic plants and difficulty of aphids transmission of garlic isolate, were possible causal for the rare CMV on garlic. Genetically, the two onion isolates from Turkey (CMV-14.3Po and CMV-15.5Po) are highly similar to others isolated from various plant species in Mediterranean, European, and East Asian countries. CMV was also detected on American beautyberry, an important wildlife and pollinator food source plant native to North America.In plant tissue this virus makes characteristic viral inclusion bodies which can be diagnostic. They are hexagonal in shape (Fig. 2) and stain both in a protein stain and a nucleic acid stain. The inclusions can also be rhomboidal, may appear hollow (Fig. 2) and can form larger aggregates. The inclusions are not uniformly distributed and can be found in epidermal (Fig. 2), mesophyll, and stomatal cells. These inclusions are made up of virus particles.			 lettuce Cucumber mosaic virus

Affected plants have veins that become large and clear, causing the rest of the leaf to become ruffled. Severely infected plants may fail to form a lettuce head.	 lettuce Lettuce big-vein disease

Lettuce mosaic virus (LMV) has a wide host range. All types of lettuce are susceptible, including Crisphead, Romaine, Butterhead, and leaf lettuces.  And in nature, the virus infects members of that same family (Asteraceae), including crop plants such as lettuce, endive, escarole, as well as various weeds and wild lettuce species. Perennial weeds and ornamental hosts are also of great importance as they can be reservoirs for inoculum. The most commonly infected cultivated plants are endive, escarole, and lettuce.  Other plants such as pea, safflower, and spinach may also become infected.Lettuce mosaic virus has a wide range of symptoms which depend on the cultivar or the type of lettuce, the age of the plant when infected, and the conditions of the environment.  The disease gets its name from the characteristic green and yellow mottling and mosaic pattern that develops on the leaves of infected plants.  Other symptoms of LMV often include yellowing of the leaves and vein clearing. In certain lettuce cultivars such as Crisphead, LMV-infected plants experience stunting and distortion of leaves.  Leaves often develop a downward rolling of the leaf tips.  Some infected plants also fail to form small heads, grow irregularly-shaped leaves, and experience stunting.  Necrotic spots on stems and leaves may grow into wide-spread necrosis.Depending on the time of infection, infected lettuce cultivars develop different symptoms.  Plants that were infected at later stages of growth develop mottling on leaves ranging from light-green to yellow in color.  Infected lettuce plants that have flowered develop symptoms such as chlorosis of the leaves and stunting of the plant.Diagnosis of Lettuce mosaic virus can be difficult despite having characteristic symptoms.  Numerous viruses may infect the species, which makes the diagnosis particularly difficult.  Diagnosis of LMV infection in lettuce requires diagnostic tests to confirm the disease.  Diagnostic tests that may be used to confirm the infection include serological methods such as lateral-flow devices and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and sequencing can also be used to confirm the infection.  The development of these diagnostic techniques has led to an increase in the speed of diagnosis, allowing for it to occur in-field for lettuce crops.	 lettuce Lettuce mosaic virus

This pathogen infects cultivated lettuce and Lactuca serriola, which is cultivated lettuce’s closest wild relative. The fungus has also been found to infect Cichorium and Crepis capillaris. Necrotic lesions on plant leaves are the characteristic symptom of lettuce anthracnose. Lesions may also be on leaf veins, and are often close to the leaf base. These lesions may fall out, creating "shot-holes" in the leaf. Lesions first appear small, circular, and wet, and may elongate into an oval shape as the disease progresses. Lesion color ranges from dull yellow to reddish brown.  	 lettuce Marssonina panattoniana

This pathogen infects cultivated lettuce and Lactuca serriola, which is cultivated lettuce’s closest wild relative. The fungus has also been found to infect Cichorium and Crepis capillaris. Necrotic lesions on plant leaves are the characteristic symptom of lettuce anthracnose. Lesions may also be on leaf veins, and are often close to the leaf base. These lesions may fall out, creating "shot-holes" in the leaf. Lesions first appear small, circular, and wet, and may elongate into an oval shape as the disease progresses. Lesion color ranges from dull yellow to reddish brown.  	 lettuce Microdochium panattonianum

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 lettuce Phymatotrichopsis omnivora

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 lettuce Phymatotrichum omnivorum

Phytoplasmas can infect and cause various symptoms in more than 700 plant species. One characteristic symptom is abnormal floral organ development including phyllody (i.e., the production of leaf-like structures in place of flowers) and virescence (i.e., the development of green flowers attributable to a loss of pigment by petal cells). Phytoplasma-harboring flowering plants may nevertheless be sterile. The expression of genes involved in maintaining the apical meristem or in the development of floral organs is altered in the morphologically affected floral organs of phytoplasma-infected plants.A phytoplasma infection often triggers leaf yellowing, probably due to the presence of phytoplasma cells in phloem, which can affect phloem function and carbohydrate transport, inhibit chlorophyll biosynthesis, and trigger chlorophyll breakdown. These symptoms may be attributable to stress caused by the infection rather than a specific pathogenetic process.Many phytoplasma-infected plants develop a bushy or "witches' broom" appearance due to changes in their normal growth patterns. Most plants exhibit apical dominance but infection can trigger the proliferation of axillary (side) shoots and a reduction in internode size. Such symptoms are actually useful in the commercial production of poinsettias. Infection triggers more axillary shoot production; the poinsettia plants thus produce more than a single flower.	 lettuce Phytoplasma

Root lesion nematodes infect a great variety of hosts. Pratylenchus penetrans alone has over 350 host plants. They include agricultural crops such as soybeans, potatoes, corn, bananas, and wheat. The genus is found most often in corn. Signs of disease are similar in most plants and generally include necrotic lesions of the roots. The lesions can also be entrances for pathogenic bacteria and fungi, which produce secondary infections. Above ground the plant becomes stunted, chlorotic, and wilted, and it often dies. A crop field may be patchy as plants wither and die. Root lesion nematodes can cause significant yield losses.	 lettuce Pratylenchus

Pseudomonas cichorii is non-host specific as it does not infect just one host. Its host range includes lettuce, pepper, celery, coffee, wheat, basil and several other host plants. Symptoms of the causal agent vary depending on the host and the area of the plant infected. In general, pseudomonas cichorii is seen to cause leaf blighting and spotting. The first appearance of symptoms involves a water soaked lesion that develops at the edge of the leaf, midvein or randomly across the leaf  These lesions progressively turn black or brown and may be surrounded by yellow halos. These lesions also often “coalesce and progress to severe leaf blight under favorable conditions for the bacterium.” When the infected leaves become dry, the spots often look brittle and crack.	 lettuce Pseudomonas cichorii

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 lettuce Rhizoctonia solani

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 lettuce Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 lettuce Thanatephorus cucumeris

Boning  first discovered Tobacco Rattle Virus in 1931 in Germany.  It was discovered in Nicotiana tabacum, which is a species of cultivated tobacco.   Tobacco Rattle Virus is common and potentially serious in a variety of herbaceous ornamentals including, but not limited to, astilbe, bleeding heart, coral bells, daffodil, epimedium, gladiolus, hyacinth, marigold, tulip and vinca.  Tobacco rattle can also affect vegetable crops such as beans, beets, peppers, potatoes, and spinach.  On potatoes, the disease is referred to as corky ring spot. The disease corky ringspot of potatoes was first reported in the United States in 1946, and was identified incorrectly as a novel virus until advances in genetics demonstrated it to be the result of TRV.Symptoms of Tobacco Rattle Virus vary based on the plant host, which differs widely in this disease.  Common symptoms include mottling, chlorotic or necrotic local lesion, ringspots or line patterns, and systemic necrosis.	 lettuce Tobacco rattle virus

TSWV infects a variety of hosts, contributing to its global economic impact on crops. There are over a thousand different hosts for TSWV. The host range of TSWV includes agronomically important crops like tomatoes and tobacco. The symptoms of TSWV vary from host to host. There is also variability of symptoms within a single type of host due to the age of the plant, nutrition and the environment (especially temperature). Common symptoms include stunting, ringspots on fruit and necrosis of leaves. There are many different strains of TSWV, and differences in symptoms may also be attributed to the differences in the number of strains present.	 lettuce Tomato spotted wilt virus

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 lisianthus Rhizoctonia solani

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 maize Alternaria alternata

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 maize Alternaria tenuis

Barley stripe mosaic virus has a narrow host range.  Horedum vulgare, commonly known as barley, is the main host for the virus.   BSMV can also infect wheat, Triticum aestivum.  Very rarely, BSMV can be seen in wild oats along with rye, maize, rice, sorghum, and millet.  In experimental conditions, spinach, beetroot, and tobacco were able to be infected. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) is a useful tool that can differentiate between similar strains of barley stripe mosaic virus and provide quantitative results.  ELISA works by using antibodies that are specific for a particular virus and the antibody-antigen interaction is mediated by a solid surface, which is usually a  polystyrene multiwell plate.Common symptoms of BSMV are yellow to white mottling, spotting and streaking, necrosis and severe mosaic on leaves.  Stunting is also very common.  Symptoms can vary based on virus strain, host plant and environmental conditions.  Symptoms are more prevalent in warm temperatures.    Plants grown from infected seeds are severely stunted or could even die before emergence in very susceptible hosts varieties.  Experimentally infected plants took 4–5 days for chlorotic symptoms to appear.Symptoms for BSMV are similar to barley stripe disease, a fungal disease caused by Pyrenophora graminea, though the two are caused by completely different pathogens and should be treated differently.	 maize Barley stripe mosaic virus

Cochliobolus victoriae is a fungus that causes Victoria blight in oats. Symptoms include stem weakening, seedling death, leaf damage, and premature ripening of seeds.  Other symptoms include basal necrosis and foliar striping, which begins at the lower leaves and proceeds upwards. Blackened nodes and root rot can also be symptoms. Conidiophores emerge from the stomata or epidermal cells of the diseased oat, usually in groups of two to five, and are a medium-brown color.	 maize Bipolaris victoriae

Fungi are capable of showing different interactions with their host and different lifestyles depending upon the interaction. Different species of Cochliobolus and its anamorphs are associated with different host species as ephiphytes, endophytes, saprophytes and pathogens. Infected seed is the major source of inoculum of C. carbonum internationally, so it is a quarantined pathogen in Europe and other countries. To my knowledge, few studies have been conducted to better understand the life and infection cycle of C. carbonum. Cochliobolus carbonum survives as mycelium and resistant chlamydospores on maize debris in the field and on infected seed. Conidia serve as a primary source of inoculum dispersed by wind and rain-splash. Damp weather and moderate temperature greatly favor sporulation and produce additional inoculum for secondary spread. During both pathogenic and saprophytic phases of the lifecycle, this fungus enters and ramifies through intact leaves and obtains nutrients from the host cytoplasm and walls by degrading cell wall components through the production of a variety of extracellular enzymes. The symptoms first appear as small, circular to oval, reddish brown to tan lesions and over time become more tan to grayish. In general, moderate temperature, high relative humidity, and heavy dew during the growing season favors the development of this disease. Senescent corn leaves are an important plant part for the growth and development of C. carbonum, because it provides biochemicals required for the formation of perithecia, asci and ascospores.	 maize Bipolaris zeicola

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 maize Botryodiplodia theobromae

BMV commonly infects Bromus inermis (see Bromus) and other grasses, can be found almost anywhere wheat is grown. It is also one of the few grass viruses that infects dicotyledonous plants, such as soybean; however, it primarily infects monocotyledonous plants, such as barley and others in the family Gramineae. The diagnostic species of this disease is maize, where seedlings show a variety of symptoms of this diseases, (dpvweb.net). Its propagation species is barley, which displays a mild mosaic. The assay species of this disease is Chenopodium Hybridum, (dpvweb.net). The symptoms of BMV are similar to most mosaic viruses. The symptoms consist of stunted growth, lesions, mosaic leaves, and death, (researchgate.net). These symptoms generally appear around 10 days after germination of the host plant. The symptoms of this disease affect maize and barley plants the most.In 2015, it was found that BMV had coinfected Triticale with Wheat Streak Mosaic Virus. This was the first report of coinfection between those two viruses and raises and the first report of BMV infecting Triticale. This raises questions on whether or not the two viruses share a common vector and how they interact with each other. They are currently researching further into this occurrence (K. Trzmiel, 2015).	 maize Brome mosaic virus

Corn is the only species that can be affected by Cercospora zeae-maydis. There are two populations of Cercospora zeae-maydis, distinguished by molecular analysis, growth rate, geographic distribution, and cercosporin toxin production. Cercospora zeae-maydis differs from its cousin group Cercospora zeina sp. nov. in that it has a faster growth rate in artificial media, the ability to produce the toxin cercosporin, longer conidiophores, and broadly fusiform conidia. Cercospora zeina sp. nov. affects corn in the Eastern Corn Belt and Mid-Atlantic States; Cercospora zeae-maydis is found in most corn producing areas of western Kentucky, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Wisconsin, Missouri, Ohio, and west Tennessee (Midwest).  Both populations share the same symptoms and virulence, the ability of the fungus to invade the host.Major outbreaks of grey leaf spot occur whenever favorable weather conditions are present (see § Environment below). The initial symptoms of grey leaf spot emerge as small, dark, moist spots that are encircled by a thin, yellow radiance (lesions formation).  The tissue within the “spot" begins to die as spot size increases into longer, narrower leaf lesions.  Although initially brownish and yellow, the characteristic grey color that follows is due to the production of grey fungal spores (conidia) on the lesion surface.  These symptoms that are similar in shape, size and discoloration are also prevalent on the corn husks and leaf sheaths. Leaf sheath lesions are not surrounded by a yellow radiance, but rather a brown or dark purple radiance. This dark brown or purple discoloration on leaf sheaths is also characteristic to northern corn leaf blight (Exserohilum turcicum), southern corn leaf blight (Bipolaris maydis), or northern corn leaf spot (Bipolaris zeicola). Corn grey leaf spot mature lesions are easily diagnosed and distinguishable from these other diseases. Mature corn grey leaf spot lesions have a brown, rectangular and vein-limited shape. Secondary and tertiary leaf veins limit the width of the lesion and sometimes individual lesions can combine to blight entire leaves.	 maize Cercospora zeae-maydis

C. herbarum's main host is maize. Although there is usually little structural damage caused to the ears, the following symptoms are obvious during inspection:grey to black or very dark green blotched or streaked fuzzy/powdery/sooty appearing spores on the kernels and in between themblack streaks and blotches start near the tips of kernels and develop towards the crownadvanced, fully colonized ears are dark and lightweightPlants that have poor husk coverage and weak seed coats allow for more frequent infection. Other factors that contribute to more infections are air currents that transport spores and an increase in vectors, including humans.The color of the fungal growth can be used to tell the various ear rots apart. For example, Cladosporium ear rot looks similar to Trichoderma ear rot, but Trichoderma ear rot has a more intense green color. Microscopic examination is needed to tell the difference for sure.	 maize Cladosporium ear rot

Fungi are capable of showing different interactions with their host and different lifestyles depending upon the interaction. Different species of Cochliobolus and its anamorphs are associated with different host species as ephiphytes, endophytes, saprophytes and pathogens. Infected seed is the major source of inoculum of C. carbonum internationally, so it is a quarantined pathogen in Europe and other countries. To my knowledge, few studies have been conducted to better understand the life and infection cycle of C. carbonum. Cochliobolus carbonum survives as mycelium and resistant chlamydospores on maize debris in the field and on infected seed. Conidia serve as a primary source of inoculum dispersed by wind and rain-splash. Damp weather and moderate temperature greatly favor sporulation and produce additional inoculum for secondary spread. During both pathogenic and saprophytic phases of the lifecycle, this fungus enters and ramifies through intact leaves and obtains nutrients from the host cytoplasm and walls by degrading cell wall components through the production of a variety of extracellular enzymes. The symptoms first appear as small, circular to oval, reddish brown to tan lesions and over time become more tan to grayish. In general, moderate temperature, high relative humidity, and heavy dew during the growing season favors the development of this disease. Senescent corn leaves are an important plant part for the growth and development of C. carbonum, because it provides biochemicals required for the formation of perithecia, asci and ascospores.	 maize Cochliobolus carbonum

Cochliobolus victoriae is a fungus that causes Victoria blight in oats. Symptoms include stem weakening, seedling death, leaf damage, and premature ripening of seeds.  Other symptoms include basal necrosis and foliar striping, which begins at the lower leaves and proceeds upwards. Blackened nodes and root rot can also be symptoms. Conidiophores emerge from the stomata or epidermal cells of the diseased oat, usually in groups of two to five, and are a medium-brown color.	 maize Cochliobolus victoriae

As a result of a possible immunoglobulin E (IgE) allergy to corn, symptoms can resemble that of any other recognized allergy, including anaphylaxis. As with other food allergies, most people who are allergic to corn have mild symptoms.	 maize Corn allergy

Corn is the only species that can be affected by Cercospora zeae-maydis. There are two populations of Cercospora zeae-maydis, distinguished by molecular analysis, growth rate, geographic distribution, and cercosporin toxin production. Cercospora zeae-maydis differs from its cousin group Cercospora zeina sp. nov. in that it has a faster growth rate in artificial media, the ability to produce the toxin cercosporin, longer conidiophores, and broadly fusiform conidia. Cercospora zeina sp. nov. affects corn in the Eastern Corn Belt and Mid-Atlantic States; Cercospora zeae-maydis is found in most corn producing areas of western Kentucky, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Wisconsin, Missouri, Ohio, and west Tennessee (Midwest).  Both populations share the same symptoms and virulence, the ability of the fungus to invade the host.Major outbreaks of grey leaf spot occur whenever favorable weather conditions are present (see § Environment below). The initial symptoms of grey leaf spot emerge as small, dark, moist spots that are encircled by a thin, yellow radiance (lesions formation).  The tissue within the “spot" begins to die as spot size increases into longer, narrower leaf lesions.  Although initially brownish and yellow, the characteristic grey color that follows is due to the production of grey fungal spores (conidia) on the lesion surface.  These symptoms that are similar in shape, size and discoloration are also prevalent on the corn husks and leaf sheaths. Leaf sheath lesions are not surrounded by a yellow radiance, but rather a brown or dark purple radiance. This dark brown or purple discoloration on leaf sheaths is also characteristic to northern corn leaf blight (Exserohilum turcicum), southern corn leaf blight (Bipolaris maydis), or northern corn leaf spot (Bipolaris zeicola). Corn grey leaf spot mature lesions are easily diagnosed and distinguishable from these other diseases. Mature corn grey leaf spot lesions have a brown, rectangular and vein-limited shape. Secondary and tertiary leaf veins limit the width of the lesion and sometimes individual lesions can combine to blight entire leaves.	 maize Corn grey leaf spot

This virus was first characterized in cucumbers (Cucumis sativus) showing mosaic symptoms in 1934, hence the name Cucumber mosaic. Since then, it has been found to infect a great variety of other plants. These include other vegetables such as squash, melons, peppers, eggplants, tomatoes, beans, carrots, celery, lettuce, spinach, beets, many ornamentals and bedding plants, such as Narcissus, and various weeds. Its presence has been confirmed on every continent of the world, including Antarctica.Symptoms seen with this virus include leaf mosaic or mottling (Fig. 1), yellowing, ringspots, stunting, and leaf, flower and fruit distortion. CMV also induces a type of symptom on leaves known as the "shoestring" effect on many host species. This effect causes young leaves to appear narrow and the entire plant to be stunted.Specifically, CMV can cause cucumbers to turn pale and bumpy. The leaves of these plants turn mosaic and their rugosity is often changed, making leaves wrinkled and misshapen. Growth of these plants is usually also stunted and produces few flowers. Often, cucumber fruits are oddly shaped, appear gray, and tested bitter. These appearances lead to them being referred to as "white pickles".Tomato plants are usually stunted and have poorly shaped leaves, or "fernleaf", when infected by CMV. Also certain strains of CMV can cause partial or total crop loss. CMV in peppers causes slightly different symptoms than the previously mentioned. Pepper plants often have severe foliar damage, shown as mosaic and necrotic rings. Often the peppers themselves are misshapen and contain chlorotic rings and spots. In celery, CMV causes streaking and spotting and can be often confused with symptoms of the celery mosaic virus. Symptoms of CMV in lettuce, such as chlorosis, plant stunting and often do not properly head, can be very similar to those of lettuce mosaic virus.CMV has also been identified in a lesser extent to a number of plant species. It is found to be a minor virus infecting Allium crops. The virus infection causes extensive malformation on garlic plants, and mild malformation to severe necrotic streaks on onion leaves. The severe damages on garlic plants and difficulty of aphids transmission of garlic isolate, were possible causal for the rare CMV on garlic. Genetically, the two onion isolates from Turkey (CMV-14.3Po and CMV-15.5Po) are highly similar to others isolated from various plant species in Mediterranean, European, and East Asian countries. CMV was also detected on American beautyberry, an important wildlife and pollinator food source plant native to North America.In plant tissue this virus makes characteristic viral inclusion bodies which can be diagnostic. They are hexagonal in shape (Fig. 2) and stain both in a protein stain and a nucleic acid stain. The inclusions can also be rhomboidal, may appear hollow (Fig. 2) and can form larger aggregates. The inclusions are not uniformly distributed and can be found in epidermal (Fig. 2), mesophyll, and stomatal cells. These inclusions are made up of virus particles.			 maize Cucumber mosaic virus

D. dadantii is phytopathogenic bacterium causing soft rot diseases on many host plants including some which are economically important. D. dadantii, more commonly known as: soft rot, brown rot or blackleg, causes characteristic symptoms associated with other bacterial wilts, causing final diagnosis to be difficult. The pathogen primarily seeks to attack the plant's xylem vessels located in leaves, stems, blossoms and storage organs of herbaceous plants. D. dadantii is able to infect hosts at any point in its life cycle. In addition to symptoms of wilt, the disease appears as sunken and cracked external lesions also having a brown interior in cross section in subterranean bulbs and tubers Diseased plants will display a variety of symptoms including: wilting, stunting and vascular discoloration of the stems. Early symptoms include water soaked lesions at the site of infection, gradually expanding chlorotic leaves and loss of turgor in tissues. The intensity of D. dadantii colonization relates to the amount of disease and degree of damage. The pathogen is very successful at infiltrating host tissues due to the many pectinases responsible for disassembly of plant cell wall polysaccharides. Once the cell wall is degraded cellular structure collapses and this cell maceration gives a characteristic "water-soaked" or rotted appearance. D. dadantii grow intercellularly, continuing to degrade cells and colonize, until it eventually reaches xylem tissues. Upon reaching the xylem vessels D. dadantii possesses the ability to spread to new regions of the host and other areas may begin to display symptoms. Colonization within the xylem restricts flow of water causing loss of turgor pressure and wilting of foliage and stems. Restricted movement of important plant compounds eventually lead to death of the host.	 maize Erwinia chrysanthemi

The pathogen is capable of causing a variety of diseases: head blight or 'scab' on wheat (Triticum), barley (Hordeum), rice (Oryza), oats (Avena), and Gibberella stalk and ear rot disease on maize (Zea). Additionally, the fungus may infect other plant species without causing any disease symptoms.MaizeIn Gibberella stalk rot, the leaves on early-infected plants will turn a dull greyish-green, and the lower internodes will soften and turn a tan to dark-brown. A pink-red discoloration occurs within the stalks of diseased tissue. Shredding of the pith may reveal small, round, black perithecia on the stalks. Gibberella (red) ear rot can have a reddish mold that is often at the ear tip. The infection occurs by colonizing corn silk and symptoms first occur at the ear's apex. The white mycelium turns from pink to red over time, eventually covering the entire ear. Ears that become infected early don't fully develop the reddish mold near the ear tip, as the mold grows between the husks and ear.RiceGibberella zeae can turn affected seeds red and cause brown discoloration in certain areas on the seed or the entire seed surface. The surface of husks develop white spots that later become yellow and salmon or carmine. Infected grains are light, shrunken and brittle. Stem nodes begin to rot and wilt, eventually causing them to turn black and disintegrate when they are infected by the fungal pathogen.WheatBrown, dark purple-black necrotic lesions will form on the outer surface of the spikelets, what the wheat ear breaks up into. The lesions may be referred to as scabs, but this is not to be confused and associated with other scab diseases such as those with different host and pathogen. Head blight is visible before the spikes mature. Spikelets begin to appear water-soaked before the loss of chlorophyll, which gives a white straw color. Peduncles that are directly under the inflorescence can become discolored into a brown-purple color. Tissues of the inflorescence typically become blighted into a bleached tan appearance, and the grain within it atrophies. The awn will become deformed, twisted and curve in a downward direction.BarleyInfections on barley are not always visible in the field. Similar to wheat, infected spikelets show a browning or water-soaked appearance. The infected kernels display a tan to dark brown discoloration. During long periods of wetness, pink to salmon-orange spore masses can be seen on the infected spikelets and kernels. The cortical lesions of infected seeds become a reddish-brown in cool, moist soil. Warm soil can cause head blight to occur after emergence, and crown and basal culm rot can be observed in later plant development.	 maize Fusarium graminearum

The pathogen is capable of causing a variety of diseases: head blight or 'scab' on wheat (Triticum), barley (Hordeum), rice (Oryza), oats (Avena), and Gibberella stalk and ear rot disease on maize (Zea). Additionally, the fungus may infect other plant species without causing any disease symptoms.MaizeIn Gibberella stalk rot, the leaves on early-infected plants will turn a dull greyish-green, and the lower internodes will soften and turn a tan to dark-brown. A pink-red discoloration occurs within the stalks of diseased tissue. Shredding of the pith may reveal small, round, black perithecia on the stalks. Gibberella (red) ear rot can have a reddish mold that is often at the ear tip. The infection occurs by colonizing corn silk and symptoms first occur at the ear's apex. The white mycelium turns from pink to red over time, eventually covering the entire ear. Ears that become infected early don't fully develop the reddish mold near the ear tip, as the mold grows between the husks and ear.RiceGibberella zeae can turn affected seeds red and cause brown discoloration in certain areas on the seed or the entire seed surface. The surface of husks develop white spots that later become yellow and salmon or carmine. Infected grains are light, shrunken and brittle. Stem nodes begin to rot and wilt, eventually causing them to turn black and disintegrate when they are infected by the fungal pathogen.WheatBrown, dark purple-black necrotic lesions will form on the outer surface of the spikelets, what the wheat ear breaks up into. The lesions may be referred to as scabs, but this is not to be confused and associated with other scab diseases such as those with different host and pathogen. Head blight is visible before the spikes mature. Spikelets begin to appear water-soaked before the loss of chlorophyll, which gives a white straw color. Peduncles that are directly under the inflorescence can become discolored into a brown-purple color. Tissues of the inflorescence typically become blighted into a bleached tan appearance, and the grain within it atrophies. The awn will become deformed, twisted and curve in a downward direction.BarleyInfections on barley are not always visible in the field. Similar to wheat, infected spikelets show a browning or water-soaked appearance. The infected kernels display a tan to dark brown discoloration. During long periods of wetness, pink to salmon-orange spore masses can be seen on the infected spikelets and kernels. The cortical lesions of infected seeds become a reddish-brown in cool, moist soil. Warm soil can cause head blight to occur after emergence, and crown and basal culm rot can be observed in later plant development.	 maize Fusarium roseum

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 maize Fusarium solani

Gibberella fujikuroi is most widely known for its disease producing capabilities in rice, but barley, millet, sugarcane and maize are also susceptible. In all infected plants, similar symptoms have been found, though rice has been most predominantly studied. The most telltale symptom of Bakanae is the tall, spindly look of the plant. This is a result of the gibberellins, or growth hormones, the fungus secretes. Infected plants are easy to pick out, then, as they often rise above the rest of the healthy plants with regularly secreted growth hormones.  However, it is also possible that stunting may occur, along with Chlorosis of the leaves of the plant, root lesions, or empty grains of plants grown to maturity.	 maize Gibberella fujikuroi

The pathogen is capable of causing a variety of diseases: head blight or 'scab' on wheat (Triticum), barley (Hordeum), rice (Oryza), oats (Avena), and Gibberella stalk and ear rot disease on maize (Zea). Additionally, the fungus may infect other plant species without causing any disease symptoms.MaizeIn Gibberella stalk rot, the leaves on early-infected plants will turn a dull greyish-green, and the lower internodes will soften and turn a tan to dark-brown. A pink-red discoloration occurs within the stalks of diseased tissue. Shredding of the pith may reveal small, round, black perithecia on the stalks. Gibberella (red) ear rot can have a reddish mold that is often at the ear tip. The infection occurs by colonizing corn silk and symptoms first occur at the ear's apex. The white mycelium turns from pink to red over time, eventually covering the entire ear. Ears that become infected early don't fully develop the reddish mold near the ear tip, as the mold grows between the husks and ear.RiceGibberella zeae can turn affected seeds red and cause brown discoloration in certain areas on the seed or the entire seed surface. The surface of husks develop white spots that later become yellow and salmon or carmine. Infected grains are light, shrunken and brittle. Stem nodes begin to rot and wilt, eventually causing them to turn black and disintegrate when they are infected by the fungal pathogen.WheatBrown, dark purple-black necrotic lesions will form on the outer surface of the spikelets, what the wheat ear breaks up into. The lesions may be referred to as scabs, but this is not to be confused and associated with other scab diseases such as those with different host and pathogen. Head blight is visible before the spikes mature. Spikelets begin to appear water-soaked before the loss of chlorophyll, which gives a white straw color. Peduncles that are directly under the inflorescence can become discolored into a brown-purple color. Tissues of the inflorescence typically become blighted into a bleached tan appearance, and the grain within it atrophies. The awn will become deformed, twisted and curve in a downward direction.BarleyInfections on barley are not always visible in the field. Similar to wheat, infected spikelets show a browning or water-soaked appearance. The infected kernels display a tan to dark brown discoloration. During long periods of wetness, pink to salmon-orange spore masses can be seen on the infected spikelets and kernels. The cortical lesions of infected seeds become a reddish-brown in cool, moist soil. Warm soil can cause head blight to occur after emergence, and crown and basal culm rot can be observed in later plant development.	 maize Gibberella zeae

G. graminicola is an anamorphic fungus which is identified as Colletotrichum graminicola in the teleomorphic phase. It is the anamorphic phase that causes anthracnose in many cereal species. While the main host of this disease is maize, it can also affect other cereals and grasses, such as sorghum, ryegrass, bluegrass, barley, wheat, and some cultivars of fescue where the production of fruiting bodies cause symptoms to appear in the host plant.  Corn anthracnose leaf blight is the most common stalk disease in maize and occurs most frequently in reduced-till or no-till fields.Symptoms can vary depending on which part of the growing season the corn is in.Early in the growing season, the main symptom is foliar leaf blight. This often appears as 1 inch (25 mm) long and 1⁄2 inch (13 mm) wide oval or spindle-shaped water-soaked lesions on the lower leaves of the plant. This tissue can become necrotic and has the potential to spread throughout the entire leaf, causing it to yellow and die. They are light brown in color, with margins that appear dark brown or purple. If this persists, black fruiting bodies will appear in the center of the lesion.The mid-season symptoms appear several weeks after corn produces tassels, when there will be a top die-back if the infection has spread throughout many parts of the plant. In this dieback, the entire plant will become necrotic and die, beginning at the tassel and working its way down the entire stalk to the lowest leaves.Late in the growing season, another major symptom of this disease appears: stalk rot. It can first be seen as a reflective black stripe on the internodes of the stalk, and can make the stalk soft, causing the plants to easily lodge in heavy precipitation or a wind event.	 maize Glomerella graminicola

Fungi are capable of showing different interactions with their host and different lifestyles depending upon the interaction. Different species of Cochliobolus and its anamorphs are associated with different host species as ephiphytes, endophytes, saprophytes and pathogens. Infected seed is the major source of inoculum of C. carbonum internationally, so it is a quarantined pathogen in Europe and other countries. To my knowledge, few studies have been conducted to better understand the life and infection cycle of C. carbonum. Cochliobolus carbonum survives as mycelium and resistant chlamydospores on maize debris in the field and on infected seed. Conidia serve as a primary source of inoculum dispersed by wind and rain-splash. Damp weather and moderate temperature greatly favor sporulation and produce additional inoculum for secondary spread. During both pathogenic and saprophytic phases of the lifecycle, this fungus enters and ramifies through intact leaves and obtains nutrients from the host cytoplasm and walls by degrading cell wall components through the production of a variety of extracellular enzymes. The symptoms first appear as small, circular to oval, reddish brown to tan lesions and over time become more tan to grayish. In general, moderate temperature, high relative humidity, and heavy dew during the growing season favors the development of this disease. Senescent corn leaves are an important plant part for the growth and development of C. carbonum, because it provides biochemicals required for the formation of perithecia, asci and ascospores.	 maize Helminthosporium carbonum

Cochliobolus victoriae is a fungus that causes Victoria blight in oats. Symptoms include stem weakening, seedling death, leaf damage, and premature ripening of seeds.  Other symptoms include basal necrosis and foliar striping, which begins at the lower leaves and proceeds upwards. Blackened nodes and root rot can also be symptoms. Conidiophores emerge from the stomata or epidermal cells of the diseased oat, usually in groups of two to five, and are a medium-brown color.	 maize Helminthosporium victoriae

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 maize Lasiodiplodia theobromae

One of the most harmful seed and soil borne pathogens, Macrophomina phaseolina is a fungus that infects nearly 500 plant species in more than 100 families. The hosts include: peanut, cabbage, pepper, chickpea, soybean, sunflower, sweet potato, alfalfa, sesame, potato, sorghum, wheat, and corn, among others. The identification of isolates of M. phaseolina is usually based on morphology and efforts to divide the pathogen into subspecies, but because there are wide intraspecific variations in the phenotype of the isolates, these criteria are often not reliable. The failure to correctly detect and identify M. phaseolina using conventional culture-based morphological techniques has led scientists to develop nucleic acid-based molecular approaches, such as highly sensitive and specific polymerase chain reaction-based methods. Researchers have also recently created species-specific oligonucleotide primers and digoxigenin-labeled probes in hopes of better identifying and detecting M. phaseolina.The pathogen M. phaseolina affects the fibrovascular system of the roots and basal internodes of its host, impeding the transport of water and nutrients to the upper parts of the plant. As a result, progressive wilting, premature dying, loss of vigor, and reduced yield are characteristic symptoms of M. phaseolina infection. The fungus also causes many diseases like damping off, seedling blight, collar rot, stem rot, charcoal rot, basal stem rot, and root rot. Although brown lesions may form on the hypocotyls or emerging seedlings, many symptoms occur during or after flowering, including grey discoloration of the stem and taproots, shredding of plant tissue in the stem and top of the taproot, and hollowing of the stem. Small black dots may form beneath the epidermis of the lower stem and in the taproot, giving the stems and roots a charcoal-sprinkled appearance. When the epidermis is removed, small and black microsclerotia (a sign of the disease) may be so numerous that they give a greyish-black tint to the plant tissue. In addition, reddish-brown discoloration and black streaks can form in the pith and vascular tissues of the root and stem.	 maize Macrophomina phaseolina

When looking for symptoms of MDMV in corn, one must also be aware of the plant’s growth stage as symptoms may affect the plant differently at various stages.  Young leaves, may experience chlorotic spotting which may eventually turn into a mosaic or mottle pattern (“Maize Dwarf Mosaic Virus,” n.d.).  Later in the growing season, the mosaic pattern may bleed into a general yellowing of the leaf and eventually areas of red streaks or blotches may appear if night time temperatures are consistently around 60 degrees Fahrenheit (Lipps & Mills, n.d.).  Plants affected later in their reproductive cycle may experience a slowing in ear development (“Maize Dwarf Mosaic Virus,” n.d.), while some plants may even become barren (Lipps & Mills, n.d.).  It is not uncommon for plants to have shortened upper internodes or an increase in tiller number (“Maize Dwarf Mosaic Virus,” n.d.).	 maize Maize dwarf mosaic virus

Leaves of infected plants become yellow from the tip and margins to the centre. Older leaves (bottom of plant) remain green. Ears and leaves dry up and sometimes look like a mature plant. The whole plant dies and maize cobs remain without kernels. MLND symptoms can be confused with symptoms of nutrient deficiency but plants affected by MLND appear only in some areas and are scattered or clumped in a field while nutrient deficiency appears on many plants over large areas of a field.In the early stages, MLND causes long yellow stripes on leaves. Unlike maize streak virus disease though, the streaks of MLND are wider. As the disease advances, the maize leaves become yellow and dry out from the outside edges towards the midrib. MLND can also cause dwarfing and premature aging of the plants. Finally, the entire plant dries out and dies. Dead plants can then be seen scattered across the field among healthy looking plants. Late infected plants don't tassel and tend to produce poor grain filled cobs.MLND presence in a field is also found by Parsons and Munkvold 2010 to increase susceptibility to ear rot conditions. This may be due to earlier stages of thrips feeding on earlier stages of kernels.	 maize Maize lethal necrosis disease

Plants affected by M. incognita present above ground symptoms of water- and nutrient-stress, yellowing, wilting, and stunting. Below ground galling on roots, bulbs, tubers is the typical symptom. Plant death may occur in high infestation level.	 maize Meloidogyne incognita

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 maize Nectria haematococca

Peronosclerospora sorghi has a broad host range, particularly plants in the sorghum family. These host plants include Sorghum bicolor, or sorghum, Sorghum sudanense, or Sudan grass, and Sorghum halepense, or Johnsongrass. Its hosts also include Pinnisetum glaucum, or pearl millet, and Zea mays, or maize. When maize plants are infected as seedlings, the first symptom to appear is chlorosis of the leaves. As the plant grows, it often shows stunting, and necrotic lesions begin to form on the leaves. As the leaves continue to grow, a white, downy growth may develop in the necrotic lesions, especially on the underside of the leaves. This downy growth is the result of the production of conidia and conidiophores under the proper environmental conditions.Sorghum and maize express very similar symptoms. In sorghum, chlorosis of the seedlings is very common after infection. As the leaves get older, they can express white striping, which eventually leads to the necrosis of the white striped tissue. When the leaves die, they begin to become shredded in appearance, similar to hail damage. This symptom is associated with the production of oospores in the leaf tissue.If sorghum plants are young and produce conidia on their leaves, this type of infection often leads to the death of the plant. If the sorghum plants are older, the pathogen will often produce oospores in the leaves. Plants are usually capable of surviving this type of infection and will survive until maturity. The disease may cause the tassels and ears of maize plants to develop improperly or not form at all. This also occurs within the panicle of the sorghum plant.Key factors in diagnosing downy mildew on maize and sorghum caused by Peronosclerospora sorghi include chlorosis of the leaves, followed by white streaking of the leaves. The leaves could also have a white, downy growth on the underside of the leaf blade. The white streaked areas of leaves become necrotic over time, leading to a shredded leaf appearance. In the maturing plant, the reproductive structures do not form properly or do not form at all. This leads to a sterile plant.	 maize Peronosclerospora sorghi

Roots will become infected and at first be light pink, sometimes they can be yellow or a yellow-brownish color. As the disease progresses the roots will become a darker pink then red and lastly turn to purple the advanced stages of this disease. Also in the later stages of this disease roots can become transparent, water soaked, and eventually disintegrate. New roots that form will also become infected, turn pink, and then die. Leaf size and number will be reduced, and bulbing will start early in infected plants compared to non-infected. Seedlings that become infected can be killed. Plants that survive from this disease become stunted and undersized which makes them not marketable. Plants that survive the infection will produce seed with a lowered biomass and germination rate.	 maize Phoma terrestris

This pathogen is an obligate parasite solely of the species Zea mays. The first symptoms are yellowing spots on both upper and lower leaf surfaces. Within the spot develops the characteristic black stromata over the ascomata, along with chlorosis of surrounding tissue. The chlorotic rings may be elliptical, circular, or may conjoin to form striping up to 10 millimetres (13⁄32 in) long. Some of the chlorotic tissue around the ascomata may become necrotic with darker edges, forming the indicative 3–8 millimetres (1⁄8–5⁄16 in) “fish-eye”. The presence of these lesions is not universal, nor is the association of these lesions with M. maydis. Research is ongoing to determine the exact cause of these lesions. Symptoms have been recorded as early as V3, but are most commonly observed during R3-R6 on or below the ear leaves.	 maize Phyllachora maydis

Phytophthora cactorum has an extremely wide host range, and can infect over 200 species or 160 genera of trees, ornamentals, and fruit crops. In general, P. cactorum is capable of infecting both young and old plants, and causes root rots and crown rots of the many genera it infects. Although the symptoms this pathogen produces varies between the types of organisms it infects, in general disease occurs during periods that are both wet and warm. Furthermore, most infections are caused by zoospores entering the plant through wounds.: 34 On older trees, P. cactorum causes the formation of sap exuding dark colored cankers on the trunks of trees, as well as leaf size and number reduction, chlorosis, and dieback of branches. The diagnosis of a P. cactorum infection of trees, is based on the identification of symptoms, in particular the oozing cankers, and confirmation of symptoms in a diagnosis lab or utilization of a field ELISA detection kit. P. cactorum can be a major problem in apple orchards, as it can cause crown, collar, and root rots in apple trees. When infecting apple trees, the organism can attack through wounds either above or below the soil line, impairing phloem and root function, and causing stunting, foliar disorders, and death after several years. Furthermore, because the pathogen causes damage to the phloem of the tree, one diagnostic method is to check for necrotic phloem tissue at the base of the tree which will be orange to red-brown in the early stages and dark brown in the later stages of infection.A good example of P. cactorum causing foliar disease is on ginseng. Foliar disease of ginseng usually occurs during May and early June, causing the leaves to become transparent and papery. Ginseng foliar infection occurs through the rain splash dispersal of spores from the soil onto above ground wounds. Once infected, P. cactorum works its way down to the roots, rotting them and killing the plant.P. cactorum is also one of the causal agents of black rot on orchids. When infecting orchids, this organism first produces small black lesions on the pseudobulbs of the orchid, which then enlarge and may engulf the entire pseudobulb, leaf, or move through the rhizomes to other portions of the plant prior to killing it. Diagnosis of orchid black rot by P. cactorum is through the identification of lemon-shaped zoosporangia with either a papilla or a short pedicel, the presence of oospores, or molecular identification. Since there are multiple species of Phytophthora that are capable of causing disease on orchids, classification only to the genus level is required for proper prescription of disease management techniques.Crown rot or root rot of strawberries is a common example of diseases of fruit crops caused by P. cactorum. On strawberries, P. cactorum infects the roots and the base of the plant causing stunting and reduced leaf size, with possible complete plant collapse later in the season. Similarly to apple trees, crown rots of strawberries caused by P. cactorum can be partially diagnosed by cutting the crown of the plant and observing brown vascular tissues, and root rots by brown or black stunted roots.Leather rot of strawberry is an additional disease affecting strawberry plants, with P. cactorum being the causal agent. Symptoms of this disease include brown patches or green patches with a brown border in immature fruit, with infected mature fruit displaying a purple to brown color, and becoming hard, leathery, or even mummified. Signs include visible mycelium inside of hollow infected berries, as well as mycelium on the surface of berries.  Infected fruit often has an unpleasant taste and odor, which is diagnostic. 	 maize Phytophthora cactorum

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 maize Phytophthora nicotianae

Puccinia sorghi often first appears after silking in maize. The first early symptom includes chlorotic specks on the leaf. The obvious sign of this plant pathogen is golden-brown pustules or bumps on the above-ground surface of the plant tissue. These bumps are urediniospores which can spread to other plants and cause further infection. They are circular and powdery, which result from spores breaking through the leaf surface. While they are only about 1-2 mm each, they are very numerous with equal frequencies on upper and lower leaf surfaces. Over time, these blister-like bumps can change from brown to black, changing from urediniospores to teliospores.  The most common place to find these spores is on the plant leaf, but they can develop on husks, tassels, and stalks as well. P. sorghi has two hosts making it a heteroecious rust. Maize and Oxalis are the two hosts for P. sorghi. In comparison, the other common type of maize rust is southern corn rust (Puccinia polysora) and it has a higher variety of hosts including maize, silver plumegrass, eastern gamagrass, Tripsacum lanceolatum, T. laxum, and T. pilorum.	 maize Puccinia sorghi

Roots will become infected and at first be light pink, sometimes they can be yellow or a yellow-brownish color. As the disease progresses the roots will become a darker pink then red and lastly turn to purple the advanced stages of this disease. Also in the later stages of this disease roots can become transparent, water soaked, and eventually disintegrate. New roots that form will also become infected, turn pink, and then die. Leaf size and number will be reduced, and bulbing will start early in infected plants compared to non-infected. Seedlings that become infected can be killed. Plants that survive from this disease become stunted and undersized which makes them not marketable. Plants that survive the infection will produce seed with a lowered biomass and germination rate.	 maize Pyrenochaeta terrestris

Pythium aphanidermatum is responsible for pre- and post-emergence damping off.  Pre-emergence damping off is when the seed is infected prior to germination.  This can result in poor or no germination, and is observable as a browning or rotting of the seed.  Post-emergence damping off takes place after germination and results in a thinning, water-soaked stem near the plant collar, which eventually causes the collapse of the plant.  P. aphanidermatum can also cause root rot.  Symptoms of root rot include stunted growth, chlorotic leaves, leaf drop, and wilting.  The infection begins at the root tip, and can cause the infected region to lose its protective outer layer, exposing the inner root to other pathogens	 maize Pythium aphanidermatum

Pythium graminicola infects a wide range of hosts, including: bent grass, turmeric, cotton, barley, wheat, rice, beans, peas, and sugarcane. In particular Pythium graminicola is an important pathogen of graminaceous plants. As with many Pythium diseases, the most common symptom of Pythium graminicola is root/seed rot, which can then cause damping off. However, Pythium graminicola can also infect above ground tissue causing stalk rot in maize, foot rot of beans, leaf blight of grasses and feeder root necrosis in rice, sugarcane and maize. Diagnosis of Pythium graminicola can be made through observation of the above symptoms and the presence of oomycete structures, such as sporangia.	 maize Pythium graminicola

Radopholus similis parasites can be found in tropical climates, and therefore infect a lot of plants native to tropical areas. Common hosts that are economically important include: banana, coconut, coffee, ginger, sugarcane, ornamentals, and tea. Although R. similis has not been found to infect citrus plants, it is closely related to another variety of burrowing nematodes, Radopholus citrophilus, that is a prominent pathogen to citrus plants. As with a plethora of root diseases, the main symptoms of an infection from burrowing nematodes are stunted growth, rotting roots, and necrotic roots. They are migratory endoparasites, and therefore can cause many localized necrotic patches throughout an infected root system. R. similis signs are generally only seen in the roots, but secondary symptoms such as wilting, weakened structure, and stunting can be caused by the root damage these parasites inflict. In fact, infection via these parasites is referred to as “banana toppling disease” in bananas because the plants often topple due to severe root damage by these nematodes. Prominent symptoms can also vary by host. Black pepper plants often undergo yellowing due to lack of nutrient uptake, ginger plants often become stunted and develop lesions, and tea plants also exhibit stunting and leaf loss.	 maize Radopholus similis

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 maize Rhizoctonia solani

Certain strains of Rhizopus microsporus use agricultural rice as a host, causing the disease Rice Seedling Blight. This infection is first observed by the fast swelling of seedling roots, but displays no further signs of infection. The main causal agent of Rice Seedling Blight is attributed to the endosymbiotic relationship with Paraburkholderia sp. The production of rhizoxin by the bacteria inhibits the ability of rice plant cells to perform mitosis, dramatically weakening or outright killing young rice seedlings. The killing of the plant cells is beneficial to both the bacteria and the fungal host, as the two live as necrotrophic pathogens.Rhizopus microsporus is similarly one of three common Rhizopus species to cause the disease Rhizopus Head Rot in confectionery sunflower species. Alongside R. oryzae, R. microsporus causes the premier head rot of sunflower in South Africa. Susceptibility to disease changes throughout the age of the host. Heads inoculated at the budding stage simply do not become infected. However, when inoculated at the anthesis stage, loss was relatively high. Yield was not reduced significantly when heads were inoculated at the seed development stage.The initial symptoms appear as small, dispersed water-soaked spots on the back of the sunflower head. As the spots expand, mycelial growth expands into parenchyma cells, further killing cells within the head. Later stages of disease have external masses of mycelium among clumps of black sporangia, dispersing spores abiotically, and by birds. The diseased heads can completely rot in 3 to 7 days.Rhizopus microsporus has been found to be the species involved in Rhizopus Ear Rot of maize as well. This is characterized by small spotted sporangia structures, mycelium growth on the ear, and eventual ear and grain rot.	 maize Rhizopus microsporus

Rice plants are susceptible to infection starting at the seedling age. The only known means of virus transmission is via planthoppers. Typical symptoms of rice stripe virus infection include pale and discontinuous yellow stripes, blotches, and dead tissue streaks on the leaves. Severe infections cause grey necrotic streaks and result in the death of the plant.	 maize Rice stripe virus

Sporisorium reilianum causes the diseases maize head smut and sorghum head smut. This soil borne smut fungus has two formae speciales. S. reilianum f. sp. reilianum is specific to sorghum and S. reilianum f. sp. zeae is specific to maize. It is unknown why the two formae speciales cannot form spores on their respective non-favored hosts.Symptoms of the fungus are expressed on both the tassels of corn and sorghum as well as on the actual ear in the form of large smut galls. When the sorghum tassel is infected, the fragile gall membrane will have a range from just a few black spores to a large mass of black spores covering the tassel. The spores are a sign of the disease and are used for dispersal of the disease to other corn and sorghum plants. When the ear of the corn is infected, it looks very small and tear-drop shaped and seems as though it does not have a cob inside at all. The cob is replaced by white sori which are the structures that make and hold the spores of the fungus. If there is an infected tassel, it is likely that the ears will also have head smut.	 maize Sphacelotheca reiliana

Sporisorium reilianum causes the diseases maize head smut and sorghum head smut. This soil borne smut fungus has two formae speciales. S. reilianum f. sp. reilianum is specific to sorghum and S. reilianum f. sp. zeae is specific to maize. It is unknown why the two formae speciales cannot form spores on their respective non-favored hosts.Symptoms of the fungus are expressed on both the tassels of corn and sorghum as well as on the actual ear in the form of large smut galls. When the sorghum tassel is infected, the fragile gall membrane will have a range from just a few black spores to a large mass of black spores covering the tassel. The spores are a sign of the disease and are used for dispersal of the disease to other corn and sorghum plants. When the ear of the corn is infected, it looks very small and tear-drop shaped and seems as though it does not have a cob inside at all. The cob is replaced by white sori which are the structures that make and hold the spores of the fungus. If there is an infected tassel, it is likely that the ears will also have head smut.	 maize Sporisorium holci-sorghi

If the corn plant becomes infected soon after flowering, the husks appear bleached to straw color. Mycelial growth on corn ears typically begin at the base of the ear. In advanced stages of disease, this can result in a light-weight mummified ears attributed to the release of extracellular hydrolytic activities of acid protease, xylanases, and cellulases. During late season, this ascomycete on the plant can be recognized by the production of small raised, black fungal reproductive structures (pycnidia) on infected kernels, cob, husks, or stalks giving it an irregular feeling when touched. When infection happens several weeks after flowering, ears may be asymptomatic, with a possible brown discoloration, or seldom show mycelium between kernels. Some isolates may cause premature germination of the corn kernels. In stalk infections, injury to the vascular system disrupts translocation and, thus, reduces grain size.	 maize Stenocarpella maydis

Stewart's wilt can be a serious disease of many corn types, including: sweet, dent, flint, flour, and popcorn. Sweet corn and popcorn cultivars are more susceptible to Stewart's wilt than field (dent) corn, but some dent corn inbreds and hybrids are susceptible. The production of virulence factors can be caused by the communication system between the bacteria known as quorum sensing. Stewart's wilt causes yield reductions by decreasing the size of corn stand or by limiting its production, resulting in fewer and smaller ears of corn.The disease is seen in parts of Arkansas, Delaware, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Missouri, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Virginia, and West Virginia. Stewart's wilt has two phases of symptoms: the wilt phase and the leaf blight phase. For both phases, symptoms first appear as leaf lesions, initiating from corn flea beetle feeding scars. At first, the leaf lesions appear long and irregularly shaped and are light green to yellow and later on, straw colored. On mature plants, yellowish streaks with wavy margins extend along the leaf veins. This leaf blight phase is often prevalent after tasseling and the symptoms look similar to frost damage, drought, nutrient disorders, northern corn leaf blight (caused by Exserohilum turcicum), and particularly Goss's wilt (caused by Clavibacter michiganensis ssp. nebraskensis). A good way to determine corn has Stewart's wilt symptoms is to look at the leaf tissue under microscope. If the bacterial ooze exhibits nonflagellated, non-spore-forming, rod-shaped bacteria, the likelihood of Stewart's wilt is great.The corn flea beetle feeds on corn leaf tissue and then transmits the P. stewartii bacterium into the plant. When large populations of corn flea beetles are feeding, skeletonization of leaves and death of seedlings can occur.In most cases, the wilt phase occurs on seedlings, but for certain corn types (i.e. sweet corn), more mature plants can wilt. The wilt phase is systemic, meaning the majority of the plant is infected via bacterial movement and colonization of the plant's vascular system. When the bacterium spreads within the plant, leaves begin withering and can die. Plants become stunted and at times, the whole plant may wilt and die. Dwarfed, bleached tassels are common. Often, plants that have wilt symptoms also have leaf blight symptoms.When the bacteria reach the corn stalks, the vascular bundles become brown and necrotic. A good indicator of whether or not the bacteria have infected the stalks is if yellow masses of bacteria are oozing from the vascular bundles. With certain sweet-corn hybrids, yellow, slimy ooze collects on the inner ear husks and/or covers the corn kernels. The kernels may also have grayish lesions with dark margins or they may be irregular in shape and dwarfed. Another common symptom of the bacteria is formation of open cavities within the stalk tissue. While the plants are weak and vulnerable, stalk rot fungi can further invade the corn plant.	 maize Stewart's wilt

Symptoms of sugarcane mosaic virus include intense mottling throughout the laminar region of the plant, characterized by discoloration of the plants leaves, and growth stunting. In maize, the infection occurs first in the youngest leaves with symptoms such as irregular, light or dark green mosaic coloring developing along the veins. The virus can result in severe yield loss of the infected host and the disease eventually leads to necrosis. Diagnosis of sugarcane mosaic virus is achieved first through recognizing the typical light green mosaic pattern of the infection, electron microscopy of leaf dips, as well as virus isolation and purification methods. One diagnosis technique being studied is the next-generation sequencing method (NGS) or sap inoculation, which was found to have a 90% success rate in a 2011 study. NGS could allow quick assessment of disease and be used for routine diagnosis against potential disease-causing agents.	 maize Sugarcane mosaic virus

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 maize Thanatephorus cucumeris

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 mango Alternaria alternata

Armillaria mellea typically infects hardwood trees and conifers but sometimes will infect non-woody monocots and a few herbaceous plants. There are few signs, and the ones that do exist are often hard to find. The most prominent sign is honey-colored mushrooms at the base of the infected plant. Additional signs include white, fan-shaped mycelia and black rhizomorphs with diameters between 1/32nd of an inch and 1/8th of an inch. These usually are not as noticeable because they occur beneath the bark and in the soil, respectively. The symptoms are much more numerous, including slower growth, dieback of branches, yellowing foliage, rotted wood at base and/or roots, external cankers, cracking bark, bleeding stem, leaf wilting, defoliation, and rapid death. Leaf wilting, defoliation, and dieback occur after the destruction of the cambium.	 mango Armillaria mellea

Armillaria species infect a wide variety of woody plants. In a survey of 250 permanent plots of trees in Albania, Armillaria tabescens affected multiple species of trees including fir species, where it invaded when the plant was stressed. Tsopelas et al. reported Armillaria tabescens to be more prevalent in areas where the trees were stressed due to limited moisture. In oak trees, it was slightly more damaging and could kill young trees. Armillaria tabescens was also recorded in poplar and eucalyptus plantations, and almond trees were found to be very susceptible to infection. The results of the study by Lushaj et al. showed that Armillaria tabescens was most frequently recorded on fruit and ornamental trees compared to the other species.Armillaria tabescens causes separation of the bark from the wood by the production of mycelial fans in the trunk, a common sign of Armillaria root rot. It also causes gummosis, patches of gummy material on the surface of plants, which occurs in response to an external stimulus which causes the plant to ooze sap. Other common symptoms are soft rot of cortex, dwarfing, dieback, wilting, and abnormal coloring of the leaves. Small trees are killed rapidly by Armillaria tabescens and the symptoms aren’t noticeable until the leaves wilt. However, on larger trees symptoms occur earlier and start as a thin crown with small leaves. A crown of a tree refers to any branches or foliage that are growing out from the trunk. Therefore, thinning of the crown would mean reduced branches and leaves. The trees eventually start yellowing and defoliating followed by fast wilting and dying of limbs. The fungus is a white rot so it breaks down lignin in the wood. The breaking down of the lignin leads to the trees becoming hollow.	 mango Armillaria tabescens

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 mango Botryodiplodia theobromae

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 mango Botryosphaeria rhodina

Botryosphaeria ribis is an ascomycete plant pathogen that primarily affects woody hosts in a number of temperate and tropical regions. The susceptible hosts include a number of economically important plants such as apple, peach, almond, banana, and walnut trees, among others.  The disease is noted by cankers, leaf spots, and necrosis, as well as twig dieback. On healthy leaves, the necrosis begins apically at the margins, extending back along the midrib, occasionally reaching the base and causing complete blight of the leaf.  Twig dieback also starts apically and works towards the center of the plant.  It is characterized by a slow necrosis of the branch, leaving large, dead limbs on the upper portions of trees.  Under the microscope, it can be identified by its immersed, pyriform perithecia (pear-shaped, spore-containing structures), which have a brown exterior wall.  The ascospores within the perithecia are ellipsoid in shape, with a smooth exterior and granular cytoplasm.  The anamorph (asexual stage) of B. ribis is Fusicoccum ribis, and although less abundant, it is characterized by globose pycnidia containing smooth, hyaline macro- and microconidia.  These symptoms have the potential to significantly decrease yield or kill the host.	 mango Botryosphaeria ribis

Ceratocystis fimbriata is an ascomycete fungal pathogen. The species as a whole can infect a wide variety of hosts, but particular strains are host-specific. One example is the Ipomoea form of the fungus, which is specific to sweet potato (Ipomea batatas) and wild morning glory. Symptoms can be found on the fleshy root or visible in plants. On sweet potato, Ceratocystis fimbriata causes a disease called 'black rot,' which displays firm and dry circular brown/black rots. Infected plants often show stunted growth, wilting, and yellowing. Wilting occurs because this pathogen can also travel through xylem and infect vascular system. During disease, white, fuzzy mycelia with long black perithecia grow out from the lesions. Additionally, research demonstrates that sweet potatoes infected with C. fimbriata demonstrate increased respiration which is partially due to the infection's influence on protein metabolism. Higher respiration rates cause dry weight loss in the tubers which poses a problem for marketability.	 mango Ceratocystis fimbriata

One of the most well-known diseases caused by Ceratocystis paradoxa is Black rot or stem-end rot of pineapple, but it can also infect tropical fruit plants such as banana and coconuts as well as sugarcane. The pathogen infects the fruits through wounds or other openings after harvest has already happened and the fruit is fresh.Symptoms for this disease are very obvious black lesions on the fruit, the main infection part of the plant. If the pathogen infects the plant while fruits are still on it, they will prematurely drop. Other symptoms include discoloration of leaves as well as the seeds. The lesions on the fruit evolve to become soft rot spots that produce a heinous odor. The fruit can even get to the point of breakdown.Known hosts:Ananas comosus (pineapple)AraceaeAreca catechu (betelnut palm)Borassus flabellifer (toddy palm)Butia capitataCocos nucifera (coconut)Coffea (coffee)Daucus carota (carrot)Dypsis decaryiElaeis guineensis (African oil palm)EucalyptusHowea forsteriana (paradise palm)Mangifera indica (mango)Musa x paradisiaca (plantain)Phoenix dactylifera (date-palm)Saccharum officinarum (sugarcane)Solanum muricatum (melon pear)Theobroma cacao (cocoa)Zea mays (maize)	 mango Ceratocystis paradoxa

One of the most well-known diseases caused by Ceratocystis paradoxa is Black rot or stem-end rot of pineapple, but it can also infect tropical fruit plants such as banana and coconuts as well as sugarcane. The pathogen infects the fruits through wounds or other openings after harvest has already happened and the fruit is fresh.Symptoms for this disease are very obvious black lesions on the fruit, the main infection part of the plant. If the pathogen infects the plant while fruits are still on it, they will prematurely drop. Other symptoms include discoloration of leaves as well as the seeds. The lesions on the fruit evolve to become soft rot spots that produce a heinous odor. The fruit can even get to the point of breakdown.Known hosts:Ananas comosus (pineapple)AraceaeAreca catechu (betelnut palm)Borassus flabellifer (toddy palm)Butia capitataCocos nucifera (coconut)Coffea (coffee)Daucus carota (carrot)Dypsis decaryiElaeis guineensis (African oil palm)EucalyptusHowea forsteriana (paradise palm)Mangifera indica (mango)Musa x paradisiaca (plantain)Phoenix dactylifera (date-palm)Saccharum officinarum (sugarcane)Solanum muricatum (melon pear)Theobroma cacao (cocoa)Zea mays (maize)	 mango Chalara paradoxa

Colletotrichum acutatum has a broad host range, but is most important in strawberries. C.  acutatum on strawberries. The pathogen causes black spot of fruit, but can also be seen attacking the plant at its crowns, roots and leaves. After planting, stunting and yellowing as well as wilting may occur. General symptoms of the disease in other plants can also be seen on flowers, petioles, and roots.  Stems are also a prominent place to see symptoms. Lesions on the stem can appear dark colored, oval shaped, and possibly have immersed spots located on petioles and runners.  Once C.acutatum infects these parts of the plant, it can cause other diseases to unfold such as crown root rot, defoliation, bloom blight and fruit rot. Unfortunately, the most significant loss can be seen once the fruit is attacked. If the fruit is infected it will develop small brown spots (green fruit) or black spots (red fruit) and can expand throughout the fruits’ surface.	 mango Colletotrichum acutatum

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 mango Colletotrichum gloeosporioides

Erythricium salmonicolor has a very broad host range. The host plants of greatest importance include rubber, tea, coffee, cacao, grapefruit, orange, nutmeg, mango, apple, coca, and kola. Pink Disease can cause heavy losses including individual branch death to the loss of the whole tree in cases where the main stem or several branches are affected. E. salmonicolor causes girdling cankers which prevent the normal function of some physiological processes, eventually leading to defoliation and die-back of outer branches. On rubber trees, initial stages of infection appear as drops of latex and silky-white mycelial growth on the bark surface. In black pepper plants, sterile pink to white pustules approximately 1 mm in diameter appear on young green stems. In citrus trees, sterile pustules may appear first, and in some cases the trees may have oozing sap or gum. In cacao trees, first symptoms of infection usually present as a sparse white mycelium on the bark surface, which can be easily overlooked. Trees are most susceptible in areas with high levels of rainfall, such as tropical rainforests. Diagnosis of Pink Disease is typically achieved through the use of light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy to observe sporulation of the pathogen.	 mango Corticium salmonicolor

Elsinoë mangiferae produces symptoms superficially similar to anthracnose infections, which are also common on mango. The disease initially presents as small dark brown or gray spots on the underside of leaves or fruit. These spots enlarge and darken over time, developing a velvety or cracked texture in the center of the lesion. The main lifestyle difference between these two is that anthracnose infections are caused by saprotrophic fungi, while E. mangiferae is exclusively a biotrophic pathogen. With severe infections, fruit drop and defoliation may occur, and surviving fruit and plants suffer scarring that reduce their commercial value.The symptoms of mango scab vary depending on the factors such as the part of the plant that is affected, age of tissue, inoculum potential, water and mineral nutrition. Also, only young tissue is prone to infection. Such as that fruit is no longer prone to infection once it reaches about half size. The appearance of symptoms is dependent on the free water availability when the tissue is at susceptible stages. Few of the symptoms can be mistakenly confused with insect injury or infection from other disease like mango anthracnose.Confirmation of the presence of mango scab requires microscopic examination of material from fruit, stems or leaves, and culture of the organism. Culture will only be successful from lesions on young plant material. This can only be done by a qualified plant pathologist.	 mango Elsinoe mangiferae

Erythricium salmonicolor has a very broad host range. The host plants of greatest importance include rubber, tea, coffee, cacao, grapefruit, orange, nutmeg, mango, apple, coca, and kola. Pink Disease can cause heavy losses including individual branch death to the loss of the whole tree in cases where the main stem or several branches are affected. E. salmonicolor causes girdling cankers which prevent the normal function of some physiological processes, eventually leading to defoliation and die-back of outer branches. On rubber trees, initial stages of infection appear as drops of latex and silky-white mycelial growth on the bark surface. In black pepper plants, sterile pink to white pustules approximately 1 mm in diameter appear on young green stems. In citrus trees, sterile pustules may appear first, and in some cases the trees may have oozing sap or gum. In cacao trees, first symptoms of infection usually present as a sparse white mycelium on the bark surface, which can be easily overlooked. Trees are most susceptible in areas with high levels of rainfall, such as tropical rainforests. Diagnosis of Pink Disease is typically achieved through the use of light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy to observe sporulation of the pathogen.	 mango Erythricium salmonicolor

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 mango Fusarium solani

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 mango Glomerella cingulata

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 mango Lasiodiplodia theobromae

One of the most harmful seed and soil borne pathogens, Macrophomina phaseolina is a fungus that infects nearly 500 plant species in more than 100 families. The hosts include: peanut, cabbage, pepper, chickpea, soybean, sunflower, sweet potato, alfalfa, sesame, potato, sorghum, wheat, and corn, among others. The identification of isolates of M. phaseolina is usually based on morphology and efforts to divide the pathogen into subspecies, but because there are wide intraspecific variations in the phenotype of the isolates, these criteria are often not reliable. The failure to correctly detect and identify M. phaseolina using conventional culture-based morphological techniques has led scientists to develop nucleic acid-based molecular approaches, such as highly sensitive and specific polymerase chain reaction-based methods. Researchers have also recently created species-specific oligonucleotide primers and digoxigenin-labeled probes in hopes of better identifying and detecting M. phaseolina.The pathogen M. phaseolina affects the fibrovascular system of the roots and basal internodes of its host, impeding the transport of water and nutrients to the upper parts of the plant. As a result, progressive wilting, premature dying, loss of vigor, and reduced yield are characteristic symptoms of M. phaseolina infection. The fungus also causes many diseases like damping off, seedling blight, collar rot, stem rot, charcoal rot, basal stem rot, and root rot. Although brown lesions may form on the hypocotyls or emerging seedlings, many symptoms occur during or after flowering, including grey discoloration of the stem and taproots, shredding of plant tissue in the stem and top of the taproot, and hollowing of the stem. Small black dots may form beneath the epidermis of the lower stem and in the taproot, giving the stems and roots a charcoal-sprinkled appearance. When the epidermis is removed, small and black microsclerotia (a sign of the disease) may be so numerous that they give a greyish-black tint to the plant tissue. In addition, reddish-brown discoloration and black streaks can form in the pith and vascular tissues of the root and stem.	 mango Macrophomina phaseolina

Erythricium salmonicolor has a very broad host range. The host plants of greatest importance include rubber, tea, coffee, cacao, grapefruit, orange, nutmeg, mango, apple, coca, and kola. Pink Disease can cause heavy losses including individual branch death to the loss of the whole tree in cases where the main stem or several branches are affected. E. salmonicolor causes girdling cankers which prevent the normal function of some physiological processes, eventually leading to defoliation and die-back of outer branches. On rubber trees, initial stages of infection appear as drops of latex and silky-white mycelial growth on the bark surface. In black pepper plants, sterile pink to white pustules approximately 1 mm in diameter appear on young green stems. In citrus trees, sterile pustules may appear first, and in some cases the trees may have oozing sap or gum. In cacao trees, first symptoms of infection usually present as a sparse white mycelium on the bark surface, which can be easily overlooked. Trees are most susceptible in areas with high levels of rainfall, such as tropical rainforests. Diagnosis of Pink Disease is typically achieved through the use of light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy to observe sporulation of the pathogen.	 mango Necator decretus

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 mango Nectria haematococca

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 mango Phymatotrichopsis omnivora

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 mango Physalospora glandicola

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 mango Physalospora rhodina

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 mango Phytophthora nicotianae

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 mango Phytophthora nicotianae var. parasitica

Although the common name of Phytophthora palmivora is bud rot of palms, and its Latin name means "plant destroyer" and "palm eater", it affects many tropical plants and has a moderately broad host range. P. palmivora is well studied in coconuts and papaya trees, however there are multiple hosts that are less commonly studied.  One common symptom of P. palmivora is fruit rots which are found in papaya, citrus, coconuts, durian, and cacao. Root rots are another symptom of P. palmivora and can be seen in red maples, citrus, papaya, mango, durian, and black pepper. Another symptom is the presence of cankers which are found in red maple, papaya, rubber, mangos, and cacao. Bud rots can also be seen in papaya and coconuts infected with P. palmivora. Bud rots are also found in Palmyra palms and coconut palms. Collar rots are found on citrus, mango, and black pepper infected with P. palmivora. The signs of P. palmivora are microscopic and can be differentiated from other oomycetes by the presence of oval shaped papillate sporangia with short pedicles and spherical oogonia with narrow stalks (Widmer, 2014).	 mango Phytophthora palmivora

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 mango Rhizoctonia solani

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 mango Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 mango Thanatephorus cucumeris

Aster yellows affects a long list of plant species including native plants, annual flowering plants, ornamentals, weeds, and vegetables crops. The largest family affected is the Asteraceae, and ornamental plants commonly infected are asters, marigolds, coreopsis, sunflowers, and purple coneflower.  Regarding vegetable crops, onion, lettuce, celery, and carrot are affected with the latter suffering the greatest losses.The range of characteristic symptoms varies by the phytoplasma strain, timing of infection, plant species, temperature, age, and size of the plant. The symptoms can be mistaken for herbicide damage or virus symptoms.  They include vein clearing until the entire leaf becomes chlorotic, stunting, deformation, virescence (greening of flowers), phyllody (development of leaf-like flower petals), reddening of foliage, reduced root system, and sterility.  Aster yellows does not typically kill perennial host plants. The symptoms caused by the disease are exacerbated by hot climates while some plants in cooler climates may be asymptomatic.Characteristic symptoms specific to the carrot include initial vein clearing and chlorosis, followed by production of many adventitious shoots, with the tops looking like a witches’-broom.  The internodes of such shoots are short as are the leaf petioles.  Young leaves are smaller and dry up while the petioles of older leaves twist and break off.  Any remaining older leaves turn bronze or red late in the season.  Floral parts are deformed and roots are smaller, abnormally shaped, and have woolly secondary roots.  The carrot roots are predisposed to soft rots in the field and storage and taste unpleasant to the consumer.	 mimulus, monkey-flower Aster yellows

INSV has a wide host range and can be found in over 300 plant species including weeds, fruits, vegetables and ornamental crops. Of these, the most severely affected include tomatoes, lettuce, pepper and peppermint as well as most all ornamentals. Symptoms of infection include a downward curling of the leaves, leaf tip dieback, stunting, necrosis of growing leaf tips, sunken ‘chicken pox-like’ spots on leaves (often with a surrounding halo), stem death and yellowing.  Since these symptoms are so generic, extreme caution must be taken when introducing new plants to your greenhouse. Infected plants can not be cured and not all hosts display visible symptoms Western Flower Thrips are extremely hard to remove from their host plants, as they often dig themselves deep into blossoms, buds and other areas hard to reach with insecticides. So, even if plants are sprayed regularly with insecticide, INSV and other insect vectored viruses can not always be ruled out when forming diagnosis.Temperature and host both play an important factor when discussing the symptoms which an INSV infected plant will display. When New Guinea Impatiens are cultivated in an environment varying between 75 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit the host plant will be highly symptomatic. However, when New Guinea Impatiens are grown in an environment just 10 degrees cooler it is unlikely for there to be any observable symptoms of disease.	 mimulus, monkey-flower Impatiens necrotic spot virus

Phytoplasmas can infect and cause various symptoms in more than 700 plant species. One characteristic symptom is abnormal floral organ development including phyllody (i.e., the production of leaf-like structures in place of flowers) and virescence (i.e., the development of green flowers attributable to a loss of pigment by petal cells). Phytoplasma-harboring flowering plants may nevertheless be sterile. The expression of genes involved in maintaining the apical meristem or in the development of floral organs is altered in the morphologically affected floral organs of phytoplasma-infected plants.A phytoplasma infection often triggers leaf yellowing, probably due to the presence of phytoplasma cells in phloem, which can affect phloem function and carbohydrate transport, inhibit chlorophyll biosynthesis, and trigger chlorophyll breakdown. These symptoms may be attributable to stress caused by the infection rather than a specific pathogenetic process.Many phytoplasma-infected plants develop a bushy or "witches' broom" appearance due to changes in their normal growth patterns. Most plants exhibit apical dominance but infection can trigger the proliferation of axillary (side) shoots and a reduction in internode size. Such symptoms are actually useful in the commercial production of poinsettias. Infection triggers more axillary shoot production; the poinsettia plants thus produce more than a single flower.	 mimulus, monkey-flower Phytoplasma

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 mint Fusarium solani

Meloidogyne hapla (Northern root-knot nematode) has a wide host range. It is polyphagous and affects over 550 crops and weeds. It feeds on many agricultural and horticultural plants (vegetables, fruits, ornamentals), but few grasses or cereals. A list of known hosts can be found at the bottom of this page.Symptoms can be seen in the roots, leaves, and the overall growth of the infected plant. In roots, there may be stunting, wilting, and the formation of abnormal growths called galls. Galls are usually small and spherical and are situated near many small roots. They are formed when the nematode enters the root and releases chemicals to enlarge root cells, on which they feed. The roots become defective and therefore cannot transport water and nutrients properly. The end result is stunted, wilted, and yellowing plants (characteristic of nutrient deficiency) and a decreased yield. Severity of the symptoms depends on nematode population density and host plant species and cultivar. As the number of nematodes increase in the area, the number and size of root galls increase as well. Each crop responds to Meloidogyne hapla differently. Carrots typically undergo severe forking with galling of the roots, lettuce have beadlike galls, and grasses and onions have small and barely noticeable galls and symptoms. In potato tubers (special stems), brown spots will appear on areas of the tubers where the females have laid their eggs.If a field has a patchy distribution of symptoms, it usually indicates the presence of nematodes. Most nematodes are not usually distributed uniformly in the soil. To correctly identify Meloidogyne hapla, the infected plant should be sent to a lab for a proper diagnosis. One common method is perineal pattern analysis where the perineum of the female nematode (area between the anus and the vulva) is examined for a specific pattern in ridges and annulations. Another common method is analyzing isozyme (different variations of the same enzyme produced by different genes) electrophoretic profiles using esterase and malate dehydrogenase.	 mint Meloidogyne hapla

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 mint Nectria haematococca

Paratylenchus spp. nematodes have a wide variety of hosts with a recorded 25 different plants it is able to infect.  Paratylenchus hamatus feeds on the roots of fig trees, celery, grapes, and peaches. P. hamatus has also been documented to cause patchy areas of chlorosis and wilting in lentils, resulting in up to 40% yield loss. Symptoms appear in patches or clusters and plants show a slow and general decline in growth and vigor. Common symptoms of infection are that of other root nematodes; stunted growth of the plant as well as the roots, chlorosis, leaf drop, reduced plant weight or yield, and undersized fruit are all symptoms which may be seen.  These symptoms are universal across the different plant species it infects.  Shallow localized lesions on the roots can be seen at feeding sites.  No signs are present with the exception of the nematodes themselves and their eggs, which are not visible to the naked eye.	 mint Paratylenchus hamatus

Root lesion nematode has a wide host range, including hosts like apple, cherry, conifers, roses, tomato, potato, corn, onion and sugarbeets, and ornamentals such as Narcissus. More than 164 hosts for P. penetrans have been recorded.  In the host range there are some hosts that are susceptible, such as wheat, oat, field pea, faba bean, and chickpea, and some that are moderately susceptible, such as barley and canola.Some general symptoms that are produced on infected plants include poor growth, fruit spot, and chlorotic foliage.  These secondary symptoms are often due to plant root stress.  These make it rather difficult to diagnose nematode diseases in general.  The roots when infected produce necrotic lesions, which are darkened areas of dead tissue, on the surface and throughout the cortex of the infected roots.  These lesions turn the root to reddish-brown to black and are initially spotty.  As the nematode continues to feed, the lesions can coalesce to become large necrotic areas of tissue that may eventually girdle the root. The population size of the nematode affects the degree of symptoms.  Low to moderate populations may cause no visible above ground symptoms, while high populations can lead to stunting, nutrient and water deficiencies, and eventual die-back of the plant.  On potato, infection of root lesion nematode can cause a secondary invasion by Verticillium dahliae leading to Potato Early Dying.  Onions are another important host of P. penetrans.  Onions are an important vegetable for consumption in the United States and upon infection the nematodes can limit yield and quality of the bulbs.  Populations of more than 0.01 nematode per cubic centimeter of soil resulted in injury to onions.  There is a negative relationship between the increasing inoculum levels on onion root and top fresh weight at harvest.	 mint Pratylenchus penetrans

Puccinia menthae feeds on plants in the family Lamiaceae. Commonly there are two groups of mint rust, spearmint rust and peppermint rust. The strain of P. menthae that infects peppermint is not able to infect spearmint plants and the strain that infects spearmint cannot infect peppermint, but both can infect Scotch spearmint. In a study done by Stiles et al., it was found that a P. menthae isolate found on oregano could infect oregano, Greek oregano, and sweet marjoram but could not infect spearmint species. Stiles obtained another rust isolate from spearmint and found it did not infect oregano or related species. This suggests the strains of P. menthae are host specific within the plant family Lamiaceae. More research is required to determine more information regarding the degree host specificity of P. menthae.In the early stages of the disease, P. menthae creates chlorotic spots on the upper side of the leaves and orange urediospores form blister-like structures on the underside of the leaves. As the season progresses, the spots turn into brown pustules, teliospores, surrounded by a chlorotic halo. Leaves will often drop off the plant. Mature aecial spores develop from spermogonia and cause hypertrophy, twisting, and distortion in young peppermint shoots.	 mint Puccinia menthae

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 mint Rhizoctonia solani

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 mint Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 mint Thanatephorus cucumeris

TSWV infects a variety of hosts, contributing to its global economic impact on crops. There are over a thousand different hosts for TSWV. The host range of TSWV includes agronomically important crops like tomatoes and tobacco. The symptoms of TSWV vary from host to host. There is also variability of symptoms within a single type of host due to the age of the plant, nutrition and the environment (especially temperature). Common symptoms include stunting, ringspots on fruit and necrosis of leaves. There are many different strains of TSWV, and differences in symptoms may also be attributed to the differences in the number of strains present.	 mint Tomato spotted wilt virus

There are many strains of Verticillium dahliae which are categorized into vegetative compatibility groups (VCG). These groups comprise strains that are able to exchange genetic material via anastomosis. Each VCG affects a few or only one host and the virulence of the pathogen varies by host. While individual V. dahliae strains are relatively host specific, as a species it has a wide range.Verticillium dahliae has a very wide host range, affecting over 300 plant species. Some susceptible crops include Brussels sprouts, cabbage, eggplant, cucumbers, mint, pepper, potatoes, pumpkin, spinach, tomato, watermelon, honeydew, and cantaloupe. Of these, tomato, potato, and eggplant have resistant or tolerant varieties.Symptoms of this disease are seen throughout the plant. Leaves may have abnormal coloration, necrotic areas, wilt, and/or fall off the plant. The stem may have discolored vascular tissue, exhibit rosetting (shortened internodes of the plant caused by reduced growth, resulting in a rosette-like appearance), and/or be stunted. Early senescence and dieback may also occur.Microsclerotia can be seen under a lens as small black structures in the vasculature of living and dead plants. This feature can be used to distinguish V. dahliae from V. albo-atrum, the other verticillium wilt pathogen.	 mint Verticillium dahliae

White rust can infect plants both locally and systemically. On stems, leaves, and inflorescences it appears as a mass of white or cream-coloured pustules, each about 2 mm (0.08 in) in diameter, packed with sporangia. New pustules are borne in radial fashion, while older pustules coalesce to form a bigger pustules in the center. The systemic version causes distortion, abnormal growth forms, and sterile inflorescences. The abnormal growth forms are sometimes known as "stagheads". Infection with white rust predisposes a crop to develop downy mildew, caused by another oomycete plant pathogen Phytophthora nicotianae.	 mustard Albugo candida

There are a variety of hosts including but not limited to; banana, beans, cabbage, carrot, cassava, coffee, corn, cotton, onion, other crucifers, pepper, potato, sweet potato and tomato. Pandanus conoideus and karuka (Pandanus julianettii) get bacterial soft rot and necrosis on the leaves from Pectobacterium carotovorum subsp. carotovorum. For each host there are different symptoms displayed. Most symptoms are along the lines of watery and soft decay of the tissue. Cabbage and crucifers' symptoms start where the tissue makes contact with the soil. Often there is a change in color and in the case of a carrot, the whole taproot can be decayed leaving just the epidermis. Sweet potatoes show clear lesions that grow rapidly leaving a recognizable watery and soft, oozy tissue where only the peel remains intact.Potatoes experience a cream to tan colored tuber that becomes very soft and watery. A characteristic black border separates the diseased area and the healthy tissue. Only when the secondary organism invades the infected tissue does that decay become slimy with a foul odor. Like the carrot, the whole tuber can be consumed leaving just the epidermis in the soil. The foliage becomes weak and chlorotic with upward turned leaves and lesions on the stem. The stem also rots and becomes mushy with its colorless or brown lesions.	 mustard Bacterial soft rot

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 mustard Colletotrichum gloeosporioides

Symptoms appear as dirty white, circular, floury patches on either sides of the leaves.Under favourable environmental conditions, entire leaves, stems, floral parts and pods are affected.The whole leaf may be covered with powdery mass.If persistent, mild chlorosis or necrosis can also occur.	 mustard Erysiphe polygoni

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 mustard Glomerella cingulata

Leptosphaeria maculans causes phoma stem canker or blackleg. Symptoms generally include basal stem cankers, small grey oval lesions on the leaf tissue and root rot (as the fungus can directly penetrate roots). L. maculans infects a wide variety of Brassica crops including cabbage (Brassica oleracea) and oilseed rape (Brassica napus). L. maculans is especially virulent on Brassica napus. The first dramatic epidemic of L. maculans occurred in Wisconsin on cabbage. The disease is diagnosed by the presence of small black pycnidia which occur on the edge of the leaf lesions. The presence of these pycnidia allow for this disease to be distinguished from Alternaria brassicae, another foliar pathogen with similar lesions, but no pycnidia.	 mustard Leptosphaeria maculans

The infection first appears as conidiophores covering the upper and lower leaf surfaces. Other symptoms include lesions on spikelet, fungal growth on leaves, and necrosis on stems and leaves. Hyaloperonospora Parasitica has a very wide host range. It can infect garlic mustard, horseradish, cruciferous vegetables, Shepherd's purse, Cheiranthus spp., Cucurbits, purple vein rocket, treacle mustard, wallflower, spurges, candytuft, mustard plants, radish, and sweet alyssum.  Although it is not significantly damaging on any one specific plant, the damage of H. parasitica can cause major economic losses if not managed properly. The recommendation for management is weekly fungicide application.	 mustard Peronospora parasitica

Leptosphaeria maculans causes phoma stem canker or blackleg. Symptoms generally include basal stem cankers, small grey oval lesions on the leaf tissue and root rot (as the fungus can directly penetrate roots). L. maculans infects a wide variety of Brassica crops including cabbage (Brassica oleracea) and oilseed rape (Brassica napus). L. maculans is especially virulent on Brassica napus. The first dramatic epidemic of L. maculans occurred in Wisconsin on cabbage. The disease is diagnosed by the presence of small black pycnidia which occur on the edge of the leaf lesions. The presence of these pycnidia allow for this disease to be distinguished from Alternaria brassicae, another foliar pathogen with similar lesions, but no pycnidia.	 mustard Phoma lingam

Leptosphaeria maculans causes phoma stem canker or blackleg. Symptoms generally include basal stem cankers, small grey oval lesions on the leaf tissue and root rot (as the fungus can directly penetrate roots). L. maculans infects a wide variety of Brassica crops including cabbage (Brassica oleracea) and oilseed rape (Brassica napus). L. maculans is especially virulent on Brassica napus. The first dramatic epidemic of L. maculans occurred in Wisconsin on cabbage. The disease is diagnosed by the presence of small black pycnidia which occur on the edge of the leaf lesions. The presence of these pycnidia allow for this disease to be distinguished from Alternaria brassicae, another foliar pathogen with similar lesions, but no pycnidia.	 mustard Phyllosticta brassicae

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 mustard Rhizoctonia solani

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 mustard Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 mustard Thanatephorus cucumeris

Cochliobolus victoriae is a fungus that causes Victoria blight in oats. Symptoms include stem weakening, seedling death, leaf damage, and premature ripening of seeds.  Other symptoms include basal necrosis and foliar striping, which begins at the lower leaves and proceeds upwards. Blackened nodes and root rot can also be symptoms. Conidiophores emerge from the stomata or epidermal cells of the diseased oat, usually in groups of two to five, and are a medium-brown color.	 oats Bipolaris victoriae

D. dipsaci has an extensive host range. Major damage occurs in garlic, onion, carrot, fava bean, alfalfa, oats, and strawberry. Ornamental plants can also be infected including hyacinth and tulip. It is estimated that this pathogen infects 400–500 plant species worldwide.In Allium species (onions, garlic, and leeks), infected plants show characteristic symptoms including stunted growth, yellow spots, leaf curl, and foliage lesions. Stems often have swollen regions called “spikkles.” As adult nematodes migrate into the scales of the bulb, and the scales become soft, grey, and loosely packed. Highly infected bulbs can also split apart or show malformed bloating. The leaves of the plant become flaccid and may collapse. This can lead to defoliated plants. Garlic shows similar symptoms of leaf yellowing and stunted bulbs. When harvested, the infected garlic may be missing portions of the root system.In fava beans (Vicia faba), symptoms of infection include reddish-brown stem lesions that can turn black. Young bean pods are dark-brown. Infected seeds are smaller and distorted compared to healthy beans. Speckles and spots are also commonly seen on infected fava beans.Up to 30 biological races occur within D. dipsaci that are mostly distinguished by their host preferences. Very little morphological differences are seen between the races which makes diagnosis difficult. Seed material samples from infected plants can be dissected and viewed under a microscope to confirm the correct race.	 oats Ditylenchus dipsaci

Triticum spp. (wheat) is the only host of B. g. f. sp. tritici. Signs on the foliage of wheat are white, powdery mycelium and conidia. As the disease progresses, the patches turn gray and small dark black or brown cleistothecia form in the mycelium mass. Symptoms progress from lower to upper leaves. Symptoms of powdery mildew are chlorotic areas surrounding the infected areas. The lower leaf surface corresponding to the mycelial mat will also show chlorosis. Lower leaves are commonly the most infected because of higher humidity around them.	 oats Erysiphe graminis

The pathogen is capable of causing a variety of diseases: head blight or 'scab' on wheat (Triticum), barley (Hordeum), rice (Oryza), oats (Avena), and Gibberella stalk and ear rot disease on maize (Zea). Additionally, the fungus may infect other plant species without causing any disease symptoms.MaizeIn Gibberella stalk rot, the leaves on early-infected plants will turn a dull greyish-green, and the lower internodes will soften and turn a tan to dark-brown. A pink-red discoloration occurs within the stalks of diseased tissue. Shredding of the pith may reveal small, round, black perithecia on the stalks. Gibberella (red) ear rot can have a reddish mold that is often at the ear tip. The infection occurs by colonizing corn silk and symptoms first occur at the ear's apex. The white mycelium turns from pink to red over time, eventually covering the entire ear. Ears that become infected early don't fully develop the reddish mold near the ear tip, as the mold grows between the husks and ear.RiceGibberella zeae can turn affected seeds red and cause brown discoloration in certain areas on the seed or the entire seed surface. The surface of husks develop white spots that later become yellow and salmon or carmine. Infected grains are light, shrunken and brittle. Stem nodes begin to rot and wilt, eventually causing them to turn black and disintegrate when they are infected by the fungal pathogen.WheatBrown, dark purple-black necrotic lesions will form on the outer surface of the spikelets, what the wheat ear breaks up into. The lesions may be referred to as scabs, but this is not to be confused and associated with other scab diseases such as those with different host and pathogen. Head blight is visible before the spikes mature. Spikelets begin to appear water-soaked before the loss of chlorophyll, which gives a white straw color. Peduncles that are directly under the inflorescence can become discolored into a brown-purple color. Tissues of the inflorescence typically become blighted into a bleached tan appearance, and the grain within it atrophies. The awn will become deformed, twisted and curve in a downward direction.BarleyInfections on barley are not always visible in the field. Similar to wheat, infected spikelets show a browning or water-soaked appearance. The infected kernels display a tan to dark brown discoloration. During long periods of wetness, pink to salmon-orange spore masses can be seen on the infected spikelets and kernels. The cortical lesions of infected seeds become a reddish-brown in cool, moist soil. Warm soil can cause head blight to occur after emergence, and crown and basal culm rot can be observed in later plant development.	 oats Fusarium graminearum

M. nivale can infect all cool-season turf grass species.  Annual bluegrass (Poa annua), perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne) and creeping bentgrass (Agrostis stolonifera) are more susceptible. In the fall, M.nivale infection begins as small, orange to red-brown spots, circular and only a few centimeters in diameter.  During the winter and into the spring seasons, well-defined, clustered, circular patches 10-20 cm in diameter, of necrotic leaf tissues form on mown turf.  Microdochium nivale is mostly seen on grasses mown at heights of three inches or greater. On taller grass, patches often lack a circular pattern that is seen in shorter mown grass. Pink snow mold patches usually follow drainage patterns since conidia spores are readily dislodged and transported by rainfall and water flowage.  Under prolonged cool and wet conditions, white-pink mycelium can be observed along the circumference of diseased patches.	 oats Fusarium patch

G. graminicola is an anamorphic fungus which is identified as Colletotrichum graminicola in the teleomorphic phase. It is the anamorphic phase that causes anthracnose in many cereal species. While the main host of this disease is maize, it can also affect other cereals and grasses, such as sorghum, ryegrass, bluegrass, barley, wheat, and some cultivars of fescue where the production of fruiting bodies cause symptoms to appear in the host plant.  Corn anthracnose leaf blight is the most common stalk disease in maize and occurs most frequently in reduced-till or no-till fields.Symptoms can vary depending on which part of the growing season the corn is in.Early in the growing season, the main symptom is foliar leaf blight. This often appears as 1 inch (25 mm) long and 1⁄2 inch (13 mm) wide oval or spindle-shaped water-soaked lesions on the lower leaves of the plant. This tissue can become necrotic and has the potential to spread throughout the entire leaf, causing it to yellow and die. They are light brown in color, with margins that appear dark brown or purple. If this persists, black fruiting bodies will appear in the center of the lesion.The mid-season symptoms appear several weeks after corn produces tassels, when there will be a top die-back if the infection has spread throughout many parts of the plant. In this dieback, the entire plant will become necrotic and die, beginning at the tassel and working its way down the entire stalk to the lowest leaves.Late in the growing season, another major symptom of this disease appears: stalk rot. It can first be seen as a reflective black stripe on the internodes of the stalk, and can make the stalk soft, causing the plants to easily lodge in heavy precipitation or a wind event.	 oats Glomerella graminicola

Triticum spp. (wheat) is the only host of B. g. f. sp. tritici. Signs on the foliage of wheat are white, powdery mycelium and conidia. As the disease progresses, the patches turn gray and small dark black or brown cleistothecia form in the mycelium mass. Symptoms progress from lower to upper leaves. Symptoms of powdery mildew are chlorotic areas surrounding the infected areas. The lower leaf surface corresponding to the mycelial mat will also show chlorosis. Lower leaves are commonly the most infected because of higher humidity around them.	 oats Oidium monilioides

Root lesion nematodes infect a great variety of hosts. Pratylenchus penetrans alone has over 350 host plants. They include agricultural crops such as soybeans, potatoes, corn, bananas, and wheat. The genus is found most often in corn. Signs of disease are similar in most plants and generally include necrotic lesions of the roots. The lesions can also be entrances for pathogenic bacteria and fungi, which produce secondary infections. Above ground the plant becomes stunted, chlorotic, and wilted, and it often dies. A crop field may be patchy as plants wither and die. Root lesion nematodes can cause significant yield losses.	 oats Pratylenchus

Uredinia are linear, light orange, and occur mostly on the leaf blades but occasionally occur also on leaf sheaths, pedunclesand awns. Extensive chlorosis is often associated with the uredinia. Telia are mostly linear, black to dark brown, and are covered by the host epidermis. Although infection by crown rust does not usually kill whole plants, it does kill individual leaves of the plants. Necrotic areas of infected leaves reflect tissue death. The expansion of disease-dependent chlorosis and necrosis greatly reduces photosynthetic processes and the overall physiological functioning of the infected plant, which in turn reduces growth and crop yields. In addition, if plants are badly infected, they become more sensitive to drought conditions which can cause death.	 oats Puccinia coronata

Pythium irregulare is an oomycete that causes pre- and post-emergence damping off, as well as root rot. Pre-emergence damping off occurs when P. irregulare infects seeds before they emerge, causing them to rot and turn brown, thus preventing successful growth. Alternatively, post-emergence damping off occurs when the oomycete infects just after the seed has germinated. This usually causes infection in the roots and stem which appears as water soaking and necrosis. Depending on the severity, plants may collapse or be severely stunted. In plants that are older and more established, P. irregulare causes root rot. This will initially cause necrotic lesions, which leads to chlorosis, reduced yield, poor growth, and stunting due to inadequate water and nutrient acquisition by the roots. Additionally, P. irregulare is often found coinfecting with other Pythium species. All three of these diseases caused by P. irregulare can be caused by other pathogens as well, so a disease diagnosis is not necessarily indicative of P. irregulareIn order to identify Pythium irregulare it is necessary to isolate the organism and observe it microscopically. First, it is important to identify that the microbe is an oomycete by looking for characteristics that are specific to oomycetes, such as coenocytic hyphae, zoospores, and oospores. After that, one can identify the microbe as being in the genera Pythium by observing disease symptoms, host range, as well as the presence of a vesicle, where zoospores form, which is attached to the sporangia. In contrast, most other oomycetes do not have a vesicle and the zoospores form in the sporangia. Finally, once the genera has been identified, it is helpful to use a dichotomous key to identify the species. Some of the key identifiers for P. irregulare include oogonia with irregular shaped, cylindrical projections, sporangia that occur singly, sporangia that are not filamentous, and oogonia smaller than 30 μm. There are also many genomic tests that can be done to determine species based on specific DNA markers. It is also important to note that many diagnosticians do not identify to the species level because it can be difficult to find all necessary microscopic structures and many management techniques can be applied to all Pythium species.Pythium irregulare has a very broad host range, including many agronomically and horticulturally important crops and is found on every continent except for Antarctica. P. irregulare infects over 200 species, including cereals, legumes, fruits, vegetables, and ornamentals. It differs from many other Pythium species in that it prefers cooler environments. A moist environment is also necessary for disease, which aids motility of spores. It is commonly found in both greenhouses and fields.	 oats Pythium irregulare

Symptoms are most visible in the first fruiting year and are most apparent during the last couple of weeks before harvest.> Early symptoms will include reduced vigor and a decrease in the ability to survive high water conditions. Plants may experience lodging when water demand is high. Infected plants may continue to grow but will show aboveground symptoms including stunting, decreased fruit size, and numerous dead older leaves. Belowground symptoms include the deterioration of roots. Infected plants may have feeder and main roots that are smaller and covered in black lesions. Feeder roots will appear water soaked. In the early stages of infection, the core of the root will appear white while the exterior begins to show black lesions. In severely affected roots, both the core and the outer tissue of the root will be black [3]. Stained feeder roots may reveal masses of moniliform cells of R. fragariae. Characteristics of R. fragariae include hyphal branching pattern, dolipore septa, and moniliform resting cells. The binucleated hyphae directly penetrate the root.	 oats Rhizoctonia cerealis

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 oats Rhizoctonia solani

Typhula spp. impacts cool season turfgrass that experiences extended periods of snow cover. These species of hosts can include creeping bentgrass, annual ryegrass, and perennial ryegrass. Some of its more common hosts include fine fescue, tall fescue, and Kentucky bluegrass. Symptoms of the pathogen often manifest in all species the same way; as circular patches 6 inches to a foot in diameter of dead or damaged turfgrass. Sometimes patches can be as large as three feet and can merge into other patches. These “scars” in the turf can remain until May or early June. Dead plant tissue becomes matted and blades become grayish and brittle after drying. Signs of the disease can include visible mycelium on turf after snow clears and dark brown or black sclerotia structures embedded in dead plant tissue.	 oats Snow mold

Typhula blight is a major problem with cool season turfgrasses during winter months. These grasses include bentgrass, annual bluegrass, perennial ryegrass, fine fescue, and kentucky bluegrass. Typhula blight is also commonly referred to as gray snow mold due to the gray colored patches found after snow has melted. Gray snow mold affects all of its hosts in the same way. After the snow has melted, gray to grayish white patches of mycelium, six to twelve inches in diameter, can be found. Within the patches, diseased grass blades often reveal either rusty or reddish brown colored sclerotia up to five millimeters in diameter. Gray snow mold can cause thinning and possibly death of the infected host.	 oats Typhula blight

Typhula incarnata is, along with Typhula ishikariensis, the causal agent of gray snow mold (also known as speckled snow mold or Typhula blight).  This plant pathogen destroys cool season turfgrasses grown in areas with extended periods of snowcover.  “Turfgrass hosts include but are not limited to: annual bluegrass, colonial bentgrass, creeping bentgrass, fine-leaf fescues, Kentucky bluegrass, perennial ryegrass, and tall fescue”.  Signs of the pathogen can be observed in the spring as circular grayish-brown patches, about 15 cm in diameter, of mycelium.  T. incarnata can be distinguished from T. ishkikariensis by its sclerotia.  T. incarnata has reddish-brown sclerotia with a diameter of 1.5–3 mm, whereas T. iskikariensis has black sclerotia with a diameter of 0.5-1.5 mm.	 oats Typhula incarnata

Infected plants do not demonstrate symptoms until heading.  Kernels of infected plants are replaced by masses of dark brown smut spores. Smutted heads are hard and compact.  Infected plants may be stunted. Occasionally smut sori may also develop in leaf blades, where they appear as long streaks.	 oats Ustilago segetum

The symptoms that plants exhibit in response to the pathogenicity of Xiphinema americanum are similar to those of other migratory ectoparasitic nematodes of roots. It is common to see poor growth and or stunting of the plant, yellowing or wilting of the foliage, and reduced root systems which can include root necrosis, lack of feeder or secondary roots, and occasional tufts of stubby rootlets.Young, shortleaved yellow pine trees with moderate swelling of roots with clusters of short, stubby branches were the first demonstration of X. americanum pathogenicity in 1955. X. americanum can also cause severe effects on foliage, sometimes causing chlorosis and complete defoliation as seen on Guatemalan coffee trees. The dagger nematode causes the devitalization of root tips and overall root death when they feed at the root tips and root sides of strawberry plants. Reddish-brown lesions that turn black and necrotic with time result at the sites of feeding, and result in reduced root systems and stunted tops.Xiphinema americanum is listed as a C-rated pest in California due to its wide host range of California crops. C-rated pests are widespread, and are of known economic or environmental detriment, according to The California Department of Food and Agriculture. Due to X. americanum's difficulty in maintaining high populations in frequently tilled soils (see Control), the dagger nematode is mainly an economic problem on biennial and perennial crops rather than annual crops (except for damage to emerging seedlings).	 oats Xiphinema americanum

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 papaya Alternaria alternata

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 papaya Botryodiplodia gossypii

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 papaya Botryodiplodia theobromae

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 papaya Colletotrichum gloeosporioides

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 papaya Diplodia gossypina

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 papaya Diplodia natalensis

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 papaya Diplodia theobromae

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 papaya Fusarium solani

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 papaya Lasiodiplodia theobromae

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 papaya Lasiodiplodia triflorae

L. taurica is the pathogen responsible for powdery mildew on onions, but it can also infect peppers, tomatoes, eggplant, cotton, and garlic. While L. taurica can infect many different plants it is actually very host specific. Different races of L. taurica can only infect certain crops, and even specific cultivars within the same crop. An accurate way to describe its host specificity is that this disease is, “a composite species consisting of many host-specific races." Symptoms of Onion Powdery Mildew (OPM) are usually seen as circular or oblong lesions that are 5 to 20 mm and have a chlorotic or necrotic appearance. The lesions appear on older leaves before the bulb of the onion begins to form, but also can occur on the younger leaves towards the end of the season. As the disease progresses signs of OPM can also be seen. On the lesions white mycelium can be found with conidiophores bearing either lanceolate or rounded condia.	 papaya Leveillula taurica

These nematodes cause symptoms both on leaves and roots. Foliar symptoms of root-knot disease may be expressed at any time during the growing season. These symptoms of nematode damage on peanut plants range from stunting, yellowing, wilting and even plant death.  Ferris (1999–2012), also reported that nematodes cause yellowing; mid-day wilting; symptoms of water and nutrient stress; and sometimes death, especially if the nematode is interacting with other organisms.  They can appear in a peanut crop beginning about 100 days after planting or after periods of dry hot weather.  Areas of root-knot nematode damaged peanut are usually round to oblong in shape, and rows of infected plants may never overlap as those of healthy plants. It is common for plants to wilt and eventually die in areas where nematode populations are high.Root symptoms are similar to those caused by all nematodes including a reduction in number of feeder roots and root stunting, but root knot nematodes cause unique symptoms on roots and pods. Nematodes cause galls (knots) to form on both roots and pods of the peanut, and these galls are highly diagnostic for root-knot nematode presence compared to other nematodes affecting peanut. The presence of galls on roots, pegs and pods appears as single or multiple wart-like growths that may or may not be discolored. As root knot nematode infection progresses, and generally later in the season, secondary root and pod rots cause further damage and eventual death of the plants.Many soil-borne fungi, especially Sclerotium rolfsii (which causes southern stem rot) and Sclerotinia minor (which causes Sclerotinia blight), will infect the weakened peanut plants and cause more plant death. Root knot nematode infection of the peg weakens the peg so that it breaks during harvest, contributing to additional yield losses because the detached pods are then left in the soil. Infection of the pods leads to a decline in yield quality.The damage threshold, or the initial nematode population density at which peanut yields begin to decline, has been reported to be in the range of 1 to 10 eggs and second stage juveniles per 500 cm3 soil for M. arenaria on susceptible peanut cultivars.	 papaya Meloidogyne arenaria

Meloidogyne hapla (Northern root-knot nematode) has a wide host range. It is polyphagous and affects over 550 crops and weeds. It feeds on many agricultural and horticultural plants (vegetables, fruits, ornamentals), but few grasses or cereals. A list of known hosts can be found at the bottom of this page.Symptoms can be seen in the roots, leaves, and the overall growth of the infected plant. In roots, there may be stunting, wilting, and the formation of abnormal growths called galls. Galls are usually small and spherical and are situated near many small roots. They are formed when the nematode enters the root and releases chemicals to enlarge root cells, on which they feed. The roots become defective and therefore cannot transport water and nutrients properly. The end result is stunted, wilted, and yellowing plants (characteristic of nutrient deficiency) and a decreased yield. Severity of the symptoms depends on nematode population density and host plant species and cultivar. As the number of nematodes increase in the area, the number and size of root galls increase as well. Each crop responds to Meloidogyne hapla differently. Carrots typically undergo severe forking with galling of the roots, lettuce have beadlike galls, and grasses and onions have small and barely noticeable galls and symptoms. In potato tubers (special stems), brown spots will appear on areas of the tubers where the females have laid their eggs.If a field has a patchy distribution of symptoms, it usually indicates the presence of nematodes. Most nematodes are not usually distributed uniformly in the soil. To correctly identify Meloidogyne hapla, the infected plant should be sent to a lab for a proper diagnosis. One common method is perineal pattern analysis where the perineum of the female nematode (area between the anus and the vulva) is examined for a specific pattern in ridges and annulations. Another common method is analyzing isozyme (different variations of the same enzyme produced by different genes) electrophoretic profiles using esterase and malate dehydrogenase.	 papaya Meloidogyne hapla

Plants affected by M. incognita present above ground symptoms of water- and nutrient-stress, yellowing, wilting, and stunting. Below ground galling on roots, bulbs, tubers is the typical symptom. Plant death may occur in high infestation level.	 papaya Meloidogyne incognita

Because there are so many different hosts for this pathogen, the symptoms are very variable. Common symptoms include abnormal leaf color, abnormal leaf form, wilting leaves, galls, swollen roots, reduced root system, dwarfing and senescence (Cabi 2018). This pathogen does the most damage when present in light soils with hot weather conditions (Alford 2012).	 papaya Meloidogyne javanica

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 papaya Nectria haematococca

Papaya is the only known host of the disease. Symptoms typically appear around 30 to 45 days after infection. Early symptoms are chlorosis and stunting of young leaves, accompanied by internode and petiole elongation. As the disease progresses petioles and leaves become rigid and thickened. Chlorosis spreads to older leaves followed by necrosis and water-soaked spots appear on the petioles and stems. In diseased plants, flowers and fruit are rarely produced and during advanced stages of the disease, the papaya plant becomes denuded except for a few stunted leaves that remain at the apex. If fruit do set during infection, they are bitter tasting and unmarketable.  Dieback can occur in some varieties of papaya when infected. A lack of latex flow from the leaves, stems, petioles, and fruit. was historically a very important symptom of diagnosis but has since found to be unreliable; making it important to look at many different symptoms before making a final diagnosis. Development rate and severity of symptoms are highly variable due to host, genotype, and region.	 papaya Papaya Bunchy Top Disease

As the name implies, PLYV is very host-specific. In an inoculation study, the virus only infected members of the papaya family Caricaceae, whereas other species (Chenopodium amaranticolor, C. murale, C. quinoa and Nicotiana benthamiana) were not infected.The signs of the virus begin to become visible when the leaves at the top of the plant begin turning yellow and eventually fall off. This usually occurs in the upper third of the canopy and death of the plant usually occurs soon after the leaves wilt and die. The fruit in some studies was found to be delayed in the ripening process and the pulp turns hard.	 papaya Papaya lethal yellowing virus

Its principal host is papaya (Carica papaya), although in host range studies, PapMV was able to infect a few other plants including snapdragons (Antirrhinum majus). It is also reported to naturally infect Ullucus tuberosus.PapMV was first reported in papaya in 1962 together with another virus that became known as Papaya ringspot virus (PRSV), a potyvirus. The two viruses were differentiated in 1965 and 1967 using particle lengths, serology, host range, inclusions, and aphid transmissibility.PapMV causes mild mosaic symptoms on papaya leaves and stunting of the plant. It is known to occur in South America (Bolivia, Peru, and Venezuela) and the USA.	 papaya Papaya mosaic virus

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 papaya Phytophthora nicotianae

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 papaya Phytophthora nicotianae var. parasitica

Although the common name of Phytophthora palmivora is bud rot of palms, and its Latin name means "plant destroyer" and "palm eater", it affects many tropical plants and has a moderately broad host range. P. palmivora is well studied in coconuts and papaya trees, however there are multiple hosts that are less commonly studied.  One common symptom of P. palmivora is fruit rots which are found in papaya, citrus, coconuts, durian, and cacao. Root rots are another symptom of P. palmivora and can be seen in red maples, citrus, papaya, mango, durian, and black pepper. Another symptom is the presence of cankers which are found in red maple, papaya, rubber, mangos, and cacao. Bud rots can also be seen in papaya and coconuts infected with P. palmivora. Bud rots are also found in Palmyra palms and coconut palms. Collar rots are found on citrus, mango, and black pepper infected with P. palmivora. The signs of P. palmivora are microscopic and can be differentiated from other oomycetes by the presence of oval shaped papillate sporangia with short pedicles and spherical oogonia with narrow stalks (Widmer, 2014).	 papaya Phytophthora palmivora

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 papaya Phytophthora parasitica

Phytoplasmas can infect and cause various symptoms in more than 700 plant species. One characteristic symptom is abnormal floral organ development including phyllody (i.e., the production of leaf-like structures in place of flowers) and virescence (i.e., the development of green flowers attributable to a loss of pigment by petal cells). Phytoplasma-harboring flowering plants may nevertheless be sterile. The expression of genes involved in maintaining the apical meristem or in the development of floral organs is altered in the morphologically affected floral organs of phytoplasma-infected plants.A phytoplasma infection often triggers leaf yellowing, probably due to the presence of phytoplasma cells in phloem, which can affect phloem function and carbohydrate transport, inhibit chlorophyll biosynthesis, and trigger chlorophyll breakdown. These symptoms may be attributable to stress caused by the infection rather than a specific pathogenetic process.Many phytoplasma-infected plants develop a bushy or "witches' broom" appearance due to changes in their normal growth patterns. Most plants exhibit apical dominance but infection can trigger the proliferation of axillary (side) shoots and a reduction in internode size. Such symptoms are actually useful in the commercial production of poinsettias. Infection triggers more axillary shoot production; the poinsettia plants thus produce more than a single flower.	 papaya Phytoplasma

Pythium aphanidermatum is responsible for pre- and post-emergence damping off.  Pre-emergence damping off is when the seed is infected prior to germination.  This can result in poor or no germination, and is observable as a browning or rotting of the seed.  Post-emergence damping off takes place after germination and results in a thinning, water-soaked stem near the plant collar, which eventually causes the collapse of the plant.  P. aphanidermatum can also cause root rot.  Symptoms of root rot include stunted growth, chlorotic leaves, leaf drop, and wilting.  The infection begins at the root tip, and can cause the infected region to lose its protective outer layer, exposing the inner root to other pathogens	 papaya Pythium aphanidermatum

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 papaya Rhizoctonia solani

Powdery mildew is manifest on the plant by white powdery fungal growth on the surface of the leaf, usually both sides of the leaf show fungal growth. The host tissue is frequently stunted, distorted, discolored, and scarred. The fruit of infected plants are usually smaller and the flavor is affected negatively, as fewer sugars and solids are stored in the fruit.	 papaya Sphaerotheca fuliginea

The pathogen that causes powdery mildew of hops was once considered to be Sphaerotheca macularis, which is capable of infecting many plants; however, in recent years, the pathogen that causes powdery mildew of hops has been taxonomically classified as Podosphaera macularis. This ascomycete is only known to be pathogenic on hop plants, including both ornamental and wild hops, and Cannabis sativa. The host range of many Podosphaera macularis strains is restricted by the existence of resistant hop varieties, such as the “Nugget” variety of Washington state and Oregon, although in recent years, resistance within this hop variety has been overcome in the laboratory. When disease does occur, early symptoms include chlorotic spots on the leaves of hop plants. Spots may fade to gray or white as the season progresses. Signs include white clusters of hyphae, which are often present on the leaves, and in some cases can infect the cone itself. If this infection occurs, a brown, necrotic lesion may develop. When both mating types exist within a population, chleistothecia can form and are visible as small, black dots on the undersides of leaves.	 papaya Sphaerotheca humuli

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 papaya Thanatephorus cucumeris

TSWV infects a variety of hosts, contributing to its global economic impact on crops. There are over a thousand different hosts for TSWV. The host range of TSWV includes agronomically important crops like tomatoes and tobacco. The symptoms of TSWV vary from host to host. There is also variability of symptoms within a single type of host due to the age of the plant, nutrition and the environment (especially temperature). Common symptoms include stunting, ringspots on fruit and necrosis of leaves. There are many different strains of TSWV, and differences in symptoms may also be attributed to the differences in the number of strains present.	 papaya Tomato spotted wilt virus

There are many strains of Verticillium dahliae which are categorized into vegetative compatibility groups (VCG). These groups comprise strains that are able to exchange genetic material via anastomosis. Each VCG affects a few or only one host and the virulence of the pathogen varies by host. While individual V. dahliae strains are relatively host specific, as a species it has a wide range.Verticillium dahliae has a very wide host range, affecting over 300 plant species. Some susceptible crops include Brussels sprouts, cabbage, eggplant, cucumbers, mint, pepper, potatoes, pumpkin, spinach, tomato, watermelon, honeydew, and cantaloupe. Of these, tomato, potato, and eggplant have resistant or tolerant varieties.Symptoms of this disease are seen throughout the plant. Leaves may have abnormal coloration, necrotic areas, wilt, and/or fall off the plant. The stem may have discolored vascular tissue, exhibit rosetting (shortened internodes of the plant caused by reduced growth, resulting in a rosette-like appearance), and/or be stunted. Early senescence and dieback may also occur.Microsclerotia can be seen under a lens as small black structures in the vasculature of living and dead plants. This feature can be used to distinguish V. dahliae from V. albo-atrum, the other verticillium wilt pathogen.	 papaya Verticillium dahliae

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 pea Alternaria alternata

Hosts of Aphanomyces euteiches can be annuals or perennials in the legume family, including: pea (Pisum sativum), alfalfa (Medicago sativa), snap bean and red kidney bean (Phaseolus vulgaris), faba bean (Vicia faba), red clover (Trifolium pratense), and white clover (Trifolium repens).  Of particular concern is Aphanomyces euteiches f.sp. pisi, which is responsible for pea root rot and is the most economically damaging form of pea root rot.  In North America, genetically distinct populations of A. euteiches demonstrate host specificity, but such specificity has not been observed in Europe.Because A. euteiches is a root-infecting pathogen, primary symptoms occur on roots and stem tissue below the soil line.  Infected roots often appear gray and water-soaked, eventually becoming soft and honey-brown or blackish-brown in appearance.  Infection causes a reduction in root volume and function, including reduced nodulation, leading to decreased water and nutrient up-take, which lead to above-ground secondary symptoms.  Symptoms in the above-ground plant tissue can include chlorosis of the cotyledons and necrosis of the epicotyls and/or hypocotyls, stunting, and wilting of foliage.  Some symptoms can differ among hosts.  Infected plants and patterns of infection in the field often correspond to areas in the field with poor soil drainage, which can be the result of soil compaction, soil texture (high clay content), or excessive wetness due to irrigation or rainfall.  Symptoms are generally similar among infected legumes, however timing and pattern of disease can differ among hosts and between annuals and perennials.  In both peas and beans, lesions tend to progress up the plant tissue, starting with the epicotyls and moving to the hypocotyls, eventually extending above the soil.  Lesions on pea epicotyls turn black, eventually creating a pinched region above the cotyledons as the result of pinched tissue.  Lesions on beans, on the other hand, have a characteristic water-soaked appearance, are grayish-green in color, and are firm to the touch.  In alfalfa symptoms include chlorotic cotyledons which may eventually become necrotic.Although the symptoms caused by A. euteiches can be difficult to distinguish from symptoms caused by other root-infecting plant pathogens (such as Pythium, Rhizoctonia, and Fusarium), there are some distinct differences.  Aphanomyces root rot rarely results in seed rot and/or pre-emergent damping-off.  The characteristic lesions caused by the different pathogens also differ.  Fusarium infection results in black or reddish vascular tissue, and Rhizoctonia infection results in sunken, cankerous lesions.A. euteiches exhibits no macroscopic signs, but oogonia and oospores can be seen in root tissue with a compound microscope.	 pea Aphanomyces euteiches f.sp. pisi

The ascochyta blight disease complex affects field peas (Pisum sativum), as well as many other legumes such as chick peas, lentils, and faba beans. Although three different pathogens cause ascochyta diseases of pea, the symptoms are relatively similar to one another, thus making diagnosis difficult. However, there are some small differences between the fungal pathogens.	 pea Ascochyta diseases of pea

Symptoms include lesions on leaves, stem and pods of plants. The disease is difficult to distinguish from blight caused by Ascochyta pisi, though D. pinodes is the more aggressive of the two pathogens.	 pea Ascochyta pinodes

The host of Ascochyta pisi is the field pea (Pisum sativum L.).  Ascochyta pisi also infects 20 genera of plants and more than 50 plant species including soybean, sweet pea, lentil, alfalfa, common bean, clover, black-eyed-pea, and broad bean.Field pea is an annual, cool season legume that is native to northwest and southwest Asia. Ascochyta blight of peas is one of the most important diseases of pea in terms of acreage affected. Yield losses of 5 to 15% are common during wet conditions.Symptoms include: spots on stems, leaves, tendrils, and pods (can be purplish, black, or brown in color)lesions on stems, leaves, tendrils, and pods (can be purplish, black, or brown in color)pod lesions become sunkenblack spore-producing structures form in the lesionswith high humidity spots can enlarge and coalesce, resulting in the lower leaves being completely blightedstem girdlingpod lesions can happen in moist conditions or if pea has lodgedinfected seeds can appear discolored and purplish-brownlightly infected seeds often appear healthy	 pea Ascochyta pisi

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 pea Colletotrichum gloeosporioides

This virus was first characterized in cucumbers (Cucumis sativus) showing mosaic symptoms in 1934, hence the name Cucumber mosaic. Since then, it has been found to infect a great variety of other plants. These include other vegetables such as squash, melons, peppers, eggplants, tomatoes, beans, carrots, celery, lettuce, spinach, beets, many ornamentals and bedding plants, such as Narcissus, and various weeds. Its presence has been confirmed on every continent of the world, including Antarctica.Symptoms seen with this virus include leaf mosaic or mottling (Fig. 1), yellowing, ringspots, stunting, and leaf, flower and fruit distortion. CMV also induces a type of symptom on leaves known as the "shoestring" effect on many host species. This effect causes young leaves to appear narrow and the entire plant to be stunted.Specifically, CMV can cause cucumbers to turn pale and bumpy. The leaves of these plants turn mosaic and their rugosity is often changed, making leaves wrinkled and misshapen. Growth of these plants is usually also stunted and produces few flowers. Often, cucumber fruits are oddly shaped, appear gray, and tested bitter. These appearances lead to them being referred to as "white pickles".Tomato plants are usually stunted and have poorly shaped leaves, or "fernleaf", when infected by CMV. Also certain strains of CMV can cause partial or total crop loss. CMV in peppers causes slightly different symptoms than the previously mentioned. Pepper plants often have severe foliar damage, shown as mosaic and necrotic rings. Often the peppers themselves are misshapen and contain chlorotic rings and spots. In celery, CMV causes streaking and spotting and can be often confused with symptoms of the celery mosaic virus. Symptoms of CMV in lettuce, such as chlorosis, plant stunting and often do not properly head, can be very similar to those of lettuce mosaic virus.CMV has also been identified in a lesser extent to a number of plant species. It is found to be a minor virus infecting Allium crops. The virus infection causes extensive malformation on garlic plants, and mild malformation to severe necrotic streaks on onion leaves. The severe damages on garlic plants and difficulty of aphids transmission of garlic isolate, were possible causal for the rare CMV on garlic. Genetically, the two onion isolates from Turkey (CMV-14.3Po and CMV-15.5Po) are highly similar to others isolated from various plant species in Mediterranean, European, and East Asian countries. CMV was also detected on American beautyberry, an important wildlife and pollinator food source plant native to North America.In plant tissue this virus makes characteristic viral inclusion bodies which can be diagnostic. They are hexagonal in shape (Fig. 2) and stain both in a protein stain and a nucleic acid stain. The inclusions can also be rhomboidal, may appear hollow (Fig. 2) and can form larger aggregates. The inclusions are not uniformly distributed and can be found in epidermal (Fig. 2), mesophyll, and stomatal cells. These inclusions are made up of virus particles.			 pea Cucumber mosaic virus

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 pea Glomerella cingulata

Plants affected by M. incognita present above ground symptoms of water- and nutrient-stress, yellowing, wilting, and stunting. Below ground galling on roots, bulbs, tubers is the typical symptom. Plant death may occur in high infestation level.	 pea Meloidogyne incognita

Symptoms include lesions on leaves, stem and pods of plants. The disease is difficult to distinguish from blight caused by Ascochyta pisi, though D. pinodes is the more aggressive of the two pathogens.	 pea Mycosphaerella pinodes

Root lesion nematodes infect a great variety of hosts. Pratylenchus penetrans alone has over 350 host plants. They include agricultural crops such as soybeans, potatoes, corn, bananas, and wheat. The genus is found most often in corn. Signs of disease are similar in most plants and generally include necrotic lesions of the roots. The lesions can also be entrances for pathogenic bacteria and fungi, which produce secondary infections. Above ground the plant becomes stunted, chlorotic, and wilted, and it often dies. A crop field may be patchy as plants wither and die. Root lesion nematodes can cause significant yield losses.	 pea Pratylenchus

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 pea Rhizoctonia solani

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 pea Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 pea Thanatephorus cucumeris

General symptoms that one can notice while looking at the leaves of a faba bean plant that has this rust disease are that the leaves will have numerous small, orange/brown pustules. These pustules are surrounded by a light yellow halo. The yellow halo is where the plant has blocked the spread of the fungus to healthy cells. The plant does this by killing the diseased plant cells forming the halo. Disease progression can cause leaves to wither and fall off of the plant. The stems of the bean plant are also affected by the rust and show symptoms of the rust pustules but are often bigger than those that are found on the leaf surface.The various stages of Faba bean rust and its different symptoms are as stated:	 pea Uromyces fabae

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 peach and nectarine Alternaria alternata

Armillaria mellea typically infects hardwood trees and conifers but sometimes will infect non-woody monocots and a few herbaceous plants. There are few signs, and the ones that do exist are often hard to find. The most prominent sign is honey-colored mushrooms at the base of the infected plant. Additional signs include white, fan-shaped mycelia and black rhizomorphs with diameters between 1/32nd of an inch and 1/8th of an inch. These usually are not as noticeable because they occur beneath the bark and in the soil, respectively. The symptoms are much more numerous, including slower growth, dieback of branches, yellowing foliage, rotted wood at base and/or roots, external cankers, cracking bark, bleeding stem, leaf wilting, defoliation, and rapid death. Leaf wilting, defoliation, and dieback occur after the destruction of the cambium.	 peach and nectarine Armillaria mellea

Armillaria species infect a wide variety of woody plants. In a survey of 250 permanent plots of trees in Albania, Armillaria tabescens affected multiple species of trees including fir species, where it invaded when the plant was stressed. Tsopelas et al. reported Armillaria tabescens to be more prevalent in areas where the trees were stressed due to limited moisture. In oak trees, it was slightly more damaging and could kill young trees. Armillaria tabescens was also recorded in poplar and eucalyptus plantations, and almond trees were found to be very susceptible to infection. The results of the study by Lushaj et al. showed that Armillaria tabescens was most frequently recorded on fruit and ornamental trees compared to the other species.Armillaria tabescens causes separation of the bark from the wood by the production of mycelial fans in the trunk, a common sign of Armillaria root rot. It also causes gummosis, patches of gummy material on the surface of plants, which occurs in response to an external stimulus which causes the plant to ooze sap. Other common symptoms are soft rot of cortex, dwarfing, dieback, wilting, and abnormal coloring of the leaves. Small trees are killed rapidly by Armillaria tabescens and the symptoms aren’t noticeable until the leaves wilt. However, on larger trees symptoms occur earlier and start as a thin crown with small leaves. A crown of a tree refers to any branches or foliage that are growing out from the trunk. Therefore, thinning of the crown would mean reduced branches and leaves. The trees eventually start yellowing and defoliating followed by fast wilting and dying of limbs. The fungus is a white rot so it breaks down lignin in the wood. The breaking down of the lignin leads to the trees becoming hollow.	 peach and nectarine Armillaria tabescens

Botryosphaeria ribis is an ascomycete plant pathogen that primarily affects woody hosts in a number of temperate and tropical regions. The susceptible hosts include a number of economically important plants such as apple, peach, almond, banana, and walnut trees, among others.  The disease is noted by cankers, leaf spots, and necrosis, as well as twig dieback. On healthy leaves, the necrosis begins apically at the margins, extending back along the midrib, occasionally reaching the base and causing complete blight of the leaf.  Twig dieback also starts apically and works towards the center of the plant.  It is characterized by a slow necrosis of the branch, leaving large, dead limbs on the upper portions of trees.  Under the microscope, it can be identified by its immersed, pyriform perithecia (pear-shaped, spore-containing structures), which have a brown exterior wall.  The ascospores within the perithecia are ellipsoid in shape, with a smooth exterior and granular cytoplasm.  The anamorph (asexual stage) of B. ribis is Fusicoccum ribis, and although less abundant, it is characterized by globose pycnidia containing smooth, hyaline macro- and microconidia.  These symptoms have the potential to significantly decrease yield or kill the host.	 peach and nectarine Botryosphaeria berengeriana

Black rotBotryosphaeria obtusa enters the fruit through wounds. These can be made by insects, birds or growth cracks. At first a brown spot, near the calyx, appears on the fruit. The spot on the fruit then enlarges and black/brown rings appear on the fruit. The fruit holds its shape, however, unlike other fruit diseases. The fruit will then wither up and can remain on the tree for another year before falling off. During this time pycnidia appear on the surface of the rotted fruit.Frogeye leaf spotIn leaves the fungus begins by causing purple specks on infected leaves. These then enlarge to cause large spots on the leaf, developing a brown color. The spots appear to have rings of brown with a purple margin, thus giving it its frogeye appearance. The spots can then produce pycnidia which can separate this species of fungus from other possible leaf fungi.CankerOn twigs, branches and trunks B. obtusa can infect where there has been a winter injury or fire blight cankers. Slightly sunken reddish/brown spots appear on the infected areas of bark. These then enlarge to form cankers, which can then enlarge slightly more each year. The bark usually dies and can, after time, be pulled away from the tree. In older cankers the pycnidia appear on the bark.Black dead arm disease of grapevineBotryosphaeria obtusa is the pathogen of black dead arm disease of grapevine. It has been shown to be able to oxidise wood δ-resveratrol into delta-viniferin.	 peach and nectarine Botryosphaeria obtusa

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 peach and nectarine Botryosphaeria rhodina

Botryosphaeria ribis is an ascomycete plant pathogen that primarily affects woody hosts in a number of temperate and tropical regions. The susceptible hosts include a number of economically important plants such as apple, peach, almond, banana, and walnut trees, among others.  The disease is noted by cankers, leaf spots, and necrosis, as well as twig dieback. On healthy leaves, the necrosis begins apically at the margins, extending back along the midrib, occasionally reaching the base and causing complete blight of the leaf.  Twig dieback also starts apically and works towards the center of the plant.  It is characterized by a slow necrosis of the branch, leaving large, dead limbs on the upper portions of trees.  Under the microscope, it can be identified by its immersed, pyriform perithecia (pear-shaped, spore-containing structures), which have a brown exterior wall.  The ascospores within the perithecia are ellipsoid in shape, with a smooth exterior and granular cytoplasm.  The anamorph (asexual stage) of B. ribis is Fusicoccum ribis, and although less abundant, it is characterized by globose pycnidia containing smooth, hyaline macro- and microconidia.  These symptoms have the potential to significantly decrease yield or kill the host.	 peach and nectarine Botryosphaeria ribis

Ceratocystis fimbriata is an ascomycete fungal pathogen. The species as a whole can infect a wide variety of hosts, but particular strains are host-specific. One example is the Ipomoea form of the fungus, which is specific to sweet potato (Ipomea batatas) and wild morning glory. Symptoms can be found on the fleshy root or visible in plants. On sweet potato, Ceratocystis fimbriata causes a disease called 'black rot,' which displays firm and dry circular brown/black rots. Infected plants often show stunted growth, wilting, and yellowing. Wilting occurs because this pathogen can also travel through xylem and infect vascular system. During disease, white, fuzzy mycelia with long black perithecia grow out from the lesions. Additionally, research demonstrates that sweet potatoes infected with C. fimbriata demonstrate increased respiration which is partially due to the infection's influence on protein metabolism. Higher respiration rates cause dry weight loss in the tubers which poses a problem for marketability.	 peach and nectarine Ceratocystis fimbriata

Armillaria species infect a wide variety of woody plants. In a survey of 250 permanent plots of trees in Albania, Armillaria tabescens affected multiple species of trees including fir species, where it invaded when the plant was stressed. Tsopelas et al. reported Armillaria tabescens to be more prevalent in areas where the trees were stressed due to limited moisture. In oak trees, it was slightly more damaging and could kill young trees. Armillaria tabescens was also recorded in poplar and eucalyptus plantations, and almond trees were found to be very susceptible to infection. The results of the study by Lushaj et al. showed that Armillaria tabescens was most frequently recorded on fruit and ornamental trees compared to the other species.Armillaria tabescens causes separation of the bark from the wood by the production of mycelial fans in the trunk, a common sign of Armillaria root rot. It also causes gummosis, patches of gummy material on the surface of plants, which occurs in response to an external stimulus which causes the plant to ooze sap. Other common symptoms are soft rot of cortex, dwarfing, dieback, wilting, and abnormal coloring of the leaves. Small trees are killed rapidly by Armillaria tabescens and the symptoms aren’t noticeable until the leaves wilt. However, on larger trees symptoms occur earlier and start as a thin crown with small leaves. A crown of a tree refers to any branches or foliage that are growing out from the trunk. Therefore, thinning of the crown would mean reduced branches and leaves. The trees eventually start yellowing and defoliating followed by fast wilting and dying of limbs. The fungus is a white rot so it breaks down lignin in the wood. The breaking down of the lignin leads to the trees becoming hollow.	 peach and nectarine Clitocybe tabescens

Colletotrichum acutatum has a broad host range, but is most important in strawberries. C.  acutatum on strawberries. The pathogen causes black spot of fruit, but can also be seen attacking the plant at its crowns, roots and leaves. After planting, stunting and yellowing as well as wilting may occur. General symptoms of the disease in other plants can also be seen on flowers, petioles, and roots.  Stems are also a prominent place to see symptoms. Lesions on the stem can appear dark colored, oval shaped, and possibly have immersed spots located on petioles and runners.  Once C.acutatum infects these parts of the plant, it can cause other diseases to unfold such as crown root rot, defoliation, bloom blight and fruit rot. Unfortunately, the most significant loss can be seen once the fruit is attacked. If the fruit is infected it will develop small brown spots (green fruit) or black spots (red fruit) and can expand throughout the fruits’ surface.	 peach and nectarine Colletotrichum acutatum

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 peach and nectarine Colletotrichum gloeosporioides

It has a wide host range, infecting many woody plants, and it is known to infect all species of the genus Prunus, which includes peach, almond, apricot, cherry, and plum. It also infects various other fruit trees, and grapes, in particular. There have been studies that have shown large concentrations of ring nematodes in peppermint, as well.Symptoms can include, but are not limited to: root-pruning, decreased nutrient uptake, vascular damage, possible death of shoots and limbs, and stunted plant growth. With the reduced nutrient uptake, some cases have shown that the change in ratio if carbon:nitrogen can make plants infected by ring nematodes more susceptible to bacterial canker cause by Pseudomonas syringae, (Lownsberry, et al. 1977).	 peach and nectarine Criconemella xenoplax

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 peach and nectarine Fusarium solani

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 peach and nectarine Glomerella cingulata

Peach leaf curl is a distinctive and easily noticeable fungal disease, and the severity of the symptoms depends on how early infection has occurred. Diseased leaves can usually be identified soon after they emerge from the bud, due to their red color and twisted shape. As the leaves develop, they become increasingly distorted, and ultimately thick and rubbery compared to normal leaves. The color of the leaves changes from the normal green to red and purple, until a whitish bloom covers each leaf. Finally, the dead leaf may dry and turn black before it is cast off. Changes in the bark are less noticeable, if at all. Fruit may fail to develop from diseased blossoms. Any fruit that does develop from a diseased tree is usually normal, but sometimes may also be affected, showing a reddish color.  Infected leaves fall early. The tree usually produces a second flush of leaves that is rarely diseased, except in an unseasonably cool and wet spring, because the fungus is not infectious at the normally higher temperatures in late spring and early summer.	 peach and nectarine Leaf curl

These nematodes cause symptoms both on leaves and roots. Foliar symptoms of root-knot disease may be expressed at any time during the growing season. These symptoms of nematode damage on peanut plants range from stunting, yellowing, wilting and even plant death.  Ferris (1999–2012), also reported that nematodes cause yellowing; mid-day wilting; symptoms of water and nutrient stress; and sometimes death, especially if the nematode is interacting with other organisms.  They can appear in a peanut crop beginning about 100 days after planting or after periods of dry hot weather.  Areas of root-knot nematode damaged peanut are usually round to oblong in shape, and rows of infected plants may never overlap as those of healthy plants. It is common for plants to wilt and eventually die in areas where nematode populations are high.Root symptoms are similar to those caused by all nematodes including a reduction in number of feeder roots and root stunting, but root knot nematodes cause unique symptoms on roots and pods. Nematodes cause galls (knots) to form on both roots and pods of the peanut, and these galls are highly diagnostic for root-knot nematode presence compared to other nematodes affecting peanut. The presence of galls on roots, pegs and pods appears as single or multiple wart-like growths that may or may not be discolored. As root knot nematode infection progresses, and generally later in the season, secondary root and pod rots cause further damage and eventual death of the plants.Many soil-borne fungi, especially Sclerotium rolfsii (which causes southern stem rot) and Sclerotinia minor (which causes Sclerotinia blight), will infect the weakened peanut plants and cause more plant death. Root knot nematode infection of the peg weakens the peg so that it breaks during harvest, contributing to additional yield losses because the detached pods are then left in the soil. Infection of the pods leads to a decline in yield quality.The damage threshold, or the initial nematode population density at which peanut yields begin to decline, has been reported to be in the range of 1 to 10 eggs and second stage juveniles per 500 cm3 soil for M. arenaria on susceptible peanut cultivars.	 peach and nectarine Meloidogyne arenaria

Meloidogyne hapla (Northern root-knot nematode) has a wide host range. It is polyphagous and affects over 550 crops and weeds. It feeds on many agricultural and horticultural plants (vegetables, fruits, ornamentals), but few grasses or cereals. A list of known hosts can be found at the bottom of this page.Symptoms can be seen in the roots, leaves, and the overall growth of the infected plant. In roots, there may be stunting, wilting, and the formation of abnormal growths called galls. Galls are usually small and spherical and are situated near many small roots. They are formed when the nematode enters the root and releases chemicals to enlarge root cells, on which they feed. The roots become defective and therefore cannot transport water and nutrients properly. The end result is stunted, wilted, and yellowing plants (characteristic of nutrient deficiency) and a decreased yield. Severity of the symptoms depends on nematode population density and host plant species and cultivar. As the number of nematodes increase in the area, the number and size of root galls increase as well. Each crop responds to Meloidogyne hapla differently. Carrots typically undergo severe forking with galling of the roots, lettuce have beadlike galls, and grasses and onions have small and barely noticeable galls and symptoms. In potato tubers (special stems), brown spots will appear on areas of the tubers where the females have laid their eggs.If a field has a patchy distribution of symptoms, it usually indicates the presence of nematodes. Most nematodes are not usually distributed uniformly in the soil. To correctly identify Meloidogyne hapla, the infected plant should be sent to a lab for a proper diagnosis. One common method is perineal pattern analysis where the perineum of the female nematode (area between the anus and the vulva) is examined for a specific pattern in ridges and annulations. Another common method is analyzing isozyme (different variations of the same enzyme produced by different genes) electrophoretic profiles using esterase and malate dehydrogenase.	 peach and nectarine Meloidogyne hapla

Plants affected by M. incognita present above ground symptoms of water- and nutrient-stress, yellowing, wilting, and stunting. Below ground galling on roots, bulbs, tubers is the typical symptom. Plant death may occur in high infestation level.	 peach and nectarine Meloidogyne incognita

Because there are so many different hosts for this pathogen, the symptoms are very variable. Common symptoms include abnormal leaf color, abnormal leaf form, wilting leaves, galls, swollen roots, reduced root system, dwarfing and senescence (Cabi 2018). This pathogen does the most damage when present in light soils with hot weather conditions (Alford 2012).	 peach and nectarine Meloidogyne javanica

It has a wide host range, infecting many woody plants, and it is known to infect all species of the genus Prunus, which includes peach, almond, apricot, cherry, and plum. It also infects various other fruit trees, and grapes, in particular. There have been studies that have shown large concentrations of ring nematodes in peppermint, as well.Symptoms can include, but are not limited to: root-pruning, decreased nutrient uptake, vascular damage, possible death of shoots and limbs, and stunted plant growth. With the reduced nutrient uptake, some cases have shown that the change in ratio if carbon:nitrogen can make plants infected by ring nematodes more susceptible to bacterial canker cause by Pseudomonas syringae, (Lownsberry, et al. 1977).	 peach and nectarine Mesocriconema xenoplax

Brown rot causes blossom blight, twig blight; twig canker and fruit rot.  Brown rot is caused by a fungus that produces spores, and can be a major problem during particularly wet seasons.  Prolonged wet weather during bloom may result in extensive blossom infection.  The length of wet periods required for blossom infection depends upon the temperature.  Humid wet conditions are when the fruit trees are most at risk from infection.  Young green fruit can be infected just before autumn, but the infection often remains inactive until near maturity of the fruit.  Brown rot can spread after harvest. Mature fruit can decay in only 2 days under warm conditions.Blossom Blight: Infected blossoms wilt, shrivel and become covered with greyish mould.  Petals may appear light brown or water-soaked.  Blighted blossoms do not produce fruit.  Dead blossoms may stick to spurs and twigs until harvest, providing a source of spores for the fruit rot phase.Twig Blight and Canker: On peaches and apricots the infection may spread to twigs, causing brownish, oval cankers that may girdle and kill twigs.	 peach and nectarine Monilinia fructicola

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 peach and nectarine Nectria haematococca

A wide variety of rose species are susceptible to powdery mildew. In light of this it is more practical to discuss the rose varieties that are resistant as opposed to those that are susceptible. Two varieties that have been found to show resistance to rose powdery mildew are "Paul's Pink" rose variety and the "Magic" rose variety. Other research has shown that many chestnut rose (Rosa roxburghii) varieties are also resistant to powdery mildew. Rosa sterilis, Rosa kweichowensis, Rosa laevigata, Rosa lucidissima, and Rosa chinensis have all been shown to be resistant to powdery mildew. R. multiflora var. multiflora and R. multiflora var. cathayensis have all been shown to be susceptible to rose powdery mildew. Symptoms caused by the rose powdery mildew can be a dwarfing of the growth of the plant, or the twisting and deforming of leaves, but more noticeable is a sign of the disease, which is the white condia, the “powder” that appears on the plant surfaces, such as leaves, shoots, flowers, and buds. The fungus may grow on both new and old leaves, but is generally more concentrated on the underside of the leaf 	 peach and nectarine Oidium leucoconium

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 peach and nectarine Phymatotrichopsis omnivora

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 peach and nectarine Phymatotrichum omnivorum

Phytophthora cactorum has an extremely wide host range, and can infect over 200 species or 160 genera of trees, ornamentals, and fruit crops. In general, P. cactorum is capable of infecting both young and old plants, and causes root rots and crown rots of the many genera it infects. Although the symptoms this pathogen produces varies between the types of organisms it infects, in general disease occurs during periods that are both wet and warm. Furthermore, most infections are caused by zoospores entering the plant through wounds.: 34 On older trees, P. cactorum causes the formation of sap exuding dark colored cankers on the trunks of trees, as well as leaf size and number reduction, chlorosis, and dieback of branches. The diagnosis of a P. cactorum infection of trees, is based on the identification of symptoms, in particular the oozing cankers, and confirmation of symptoms in a diagnosis lab or utilization of a field ELISA detection kit. P. cactorum can be a major problem in apple orchards, as it can cause crown, collar, and root rots in apple trees. When infecting apple trees, the organism can attack through wounds either above or below the soil line, impairing phloem and root function, and causing stunting, foliar disorders, and death after several years. Furthermore, because the pathogen causes damage to the phloem of the tree, one diagnostic method is to check for necrotic phloem tissue at the base of the tree which will be orange to red-brown in the early stages and dark brown in the later stages of infection.A good example of P. cactorum causing foliar disease is on ginseng. Foliar disease of ginseng usually occurs during May and early June, causing the leaves to become transparent and papery. Ginseng foliar infection occurs through the rain splash dispersal of spores from the soil onto above ground wounds. Once infected, P. cactorum works its way down to the roots, rotting them and killing the plant.P. cactorum is also one of the causal agents of black rot on orchids. When infecting orchids, this organism first produces small black lesions on the pseudobulbs of the orchid, which then enlarge and may engulf the entire pseudobulb, leaf, or move through the rhizomes to other portions of the plant prior to killing it. Diagnosis of orchid black rot by P. cactorum is through the identification of lemon-shaped zoosporangia with either a papilla or a short pedicel, the presence of oospores, or molecular identification. Since there are multiple species of Phytophthora that are capable of causing disease on orchids, classification only to the genus level is required for proper prescription of disease management techniques.Crown rot or root rot of strawberries is a common example of diseases of fruit crops caused by P. cactorum. On strawberries, P. cactorum infects the roots and the base of the plant causing stunting and reduced leaf size, with possible complete plant collapse later in the season. Similarly to apple trees, crown rots of strawberries caused by P. cactorum can be partially diagnosed by cutting the crown of the plant and observing brown vascular tissues, and root rots by brown or black stunted roots.Leather rot of strawberry is an additional disease affecting strawberry plants, with P. cactorum being the causal agent. Symptoms of this disease include brown patches or green patches with a brown border in immature fruit, with infected mature fruit displaying a purple to brown color, and becoming hard, leathery, or even mummified. Signs include visible mycelium inside of hollow infected berries, as well as mycelium on the surface of berries.  Infected fruit often has an unpleasant taste and odor, which is diagnostic. 	 peach and nectarine Phytophthora cactorum

This species is reported to be pathogenic on grandiflora petunia (Petunia × atkinsiana). It causes root rot, shoot rot and shanking in tulips. It also infects blue daze (Evolvulus glomeratus), dusty miller (Jacobaea maritima), Barberton daisy (Gerbera jamesonii), and garden verbena (Verbena × hybrida). Like its relative Phytophtora cambivora, it can cause ink disease of chestnuts (Castanea sativa).The species is a cause of foot rot in tomatoes, causing discoloration and lesion in the stem. Progression of lesions leads to girdling, root system rot and plant collapse. Foliage will not be affected until plant stem has become girdled.	 peach and nectarine Phytophthora cryptogea

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 peach and nectarine Phytophthora parasitica

Phytoplasmas can infect and cause various symptoms in more than 700 plant species. One characteristic symptom is abnormal floral organ development including phyllody (i.e., the production of leaf-like structures in place of flowers) and virescence (i.e., the development of green flowers attributable to a loss of pigment by petal cells). Phytoplasma-harboring flowering plants may nevertheless be sterile. The expression of genes involved in maintaining the apical meristem or in the development of floral organs is altered in the morphologically affected floral organs of phytoplasma-infected plants.A phytoplasma infection often triggers leaf yellowing, probably due to the presence of phytoplasma cells in phloem, which can affect phloem function and carbohydrate transport, inhibit chlorophyll biosynthesis, and trigger chlorophyll breakdown. These symptoms may be attributable to stress caused by the infection rather than a specific pathogenetic process.Many phytoplasma-infected plants develop a bushy or "witches' broom" appearance due to changes in their normal growth patterns. Most plants exhibit apical dominance but infection can trigger the proliferation of axillary (side) shoots and a reduction in internode size. Such symptoms are actually useful in the commercial production of poinsettias. Infection triggers more axillary shoot production; the poinsettia plants thus produce more than a single flower.	 peach and nectarine Phytoplasma

Powdery mildew, caused by the obligate biotrophic ascomycete Podosphaera leucotricha, is one of the major diseases of cultivated apple throughout the world. The primary host is apple, but other fruit like peaches and quince provide a host for Podosphaera leucotricha.  A list of host plants/species affected includes Cydonia oblonga (quince), Malus (apple), Prunus persica (peach), Prunus domestica (plum), Pyrus (pears), and Mespilus germanica (medlar). On apples, the fungus affects twigs, foliage, blossoms, and fruits of current season growth. Infected plants are characterized by reduced photosynthesis and transpiration, resulting suboptimal carbohydrate assimilation and reduced growth.Podosphaera leucotricha causes a range of symptoms. On stems, symptoms include wilting and discoloration. Wilting and leaf curling occur on leaves. Symptoms of the inflorescence include discoloration (non-graminous plants), dwarfing, stunting, and twisting. On fruit symptoms include net-like russeting and deformed fruit. Depending on the stage in the disease cycle, symptoms vary. The primary blossom mildew emerges at pink bud stage. Flowers are deformed with pale green or yellow petal and are covered in white mycelium and spores. The secondary mildew may have lesions that appear as chlorotic spots on the upper leaf surface. Symptoms of the secondary mildew also included distorted leaves and premature falling of leaves.	 peach and nectarine Podosphaera leucotricha

Root lesion nematode has a wide host range, including hosts like apple, cherry, conifers, roses, tomato, potato, corn, onion and sugarbeets, and ornamentals such as Narcissus. More than 164 hosts for P. penetrans have been recorded.  In the host range there are some hosts that are susceptible, such as wheat, oat, field pea, faba bean, and chickpea, and some that are moderately susceptible, such as barley and canola.Some general symptoms that are produced on infected plants include poor growth, fruit spot, and chlorotic foliage.  These secondary symptoms are often due to plant root stress.  These make it rather difficult to diagnose nematode diseases in general.  The roots when infected produce necrotic lesions, which are darkened areas of dead tissue, on the surface and throughout the cortex of the infected roots.  These lesions turn the root to reddish-brown to black and are initially spotty.  As the nematode continues to feed, the lesions can coalesce to become large necrotic areas of tissue that may eventually girdle the root. The population size of the nematode affects the degree of symptoms.  Low to moderate populations may cause no visible above ground symptoms, while high populations can lead to stunting, nutrient and water deficiencies, and eventual die-back of the plant.  On potato, infection of root lesion nematode can cause a secondary invasion by Verticillium dahliae leading to Potato Early Dying.  Onions are another important host of P. penetrans.  Onions are an important vegetable for consumption in the United States and upon infection the nematodes can limit yield and quality of the bulbs.  Populations of more than 0.01 nematode per cubic centimeter of soil resulted in injury to onions.  There is a negative relationship between the increasing inoculum levels on onion root and top fresh weight at harvest.	 peach and nectarine Pratylenchus penetrans

All cultivated species of the genus Prunus, which includes plums, cherries, apricots, almonds, and peaches, are susceptible to one or more strains of PNRSV. Hops and rose are also susceptible to infection by the virus. Other susceptible hosts used for diagnosis include Chenopodium quinoa Willd., sunflower (Helianthus annus), and Momordica balsamina.Symptoms on orchard trees can include death of buds and roots, reduced tree survival and uniformity, and increased susceptibility to winter injury. Some common symptoms also include necrotic “shot holes” in leaves or rugosity and mosaic symptoms. In sweet cherries, PNRSV causes reduced leaf size and produces diffused chlorotic rings and/or spots. Generally, symptoms of PNRSV appear in the year following infection, and then becomes symptomless, although some strains cause recurrent symptoms annually. Although adult trees can show recovery from initial symptoms, keeping young trees virus-free is important because the virus can cause long-lasting stunting compared to healthy trees.  It is important to note that symptom severity varies due to host cultivar and viral isolate.	 peach and nectarine Prunus necrotic ringspot virus

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 peach and nectarine Rhizoctonia solani

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 peach and nectarine Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

A wide variety of rose species are susceptible to powdery mildew. In light of this it is more practical to discuss the rose varieties that are resistant as opposed to those that are susceptible. Two varieties that have been found to show resistance to rose powdery mildew are "Paul's Pink" rose variety and the "Magic" rose variety. Other research has shown that many chestnut rose (Rosa roxburghii) varieties are also resistant to powdery mildew. Rosa sterilis, Rosa kweichowensis, Rosa laevigata, Rosa lucidissima, and Rosa chinensis have all been shown to be resistant to powdery mildew. R. multiflora var. multiflora and R. multiflora var. cathayensis have all been shown to be susceptible to rose powdery mildew. Symptoms caused by the rose powdery mildew can be a dwarfing of the growth of the plant, or the twisting and deforming of leaves, but more noticeable is a sign of the disease, which is the white condia, the “powder” that appears on the plant surfaces, such as leaves, shoots, flowers, and buds. The fungus may grow on both new and old leaves, but is generally more concentrated on the underside of the leaf 	 peach and nectarine Sphaerotheca pannosa

Leaves become patchy and reddish in color. There are decreased yields.	 peach and nectarine Strawberry latent ringspot virus

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 peach and nectarine Thanatephorus cucumeris

There are many strains of Verticillium dahliae which are categorized into vegetative compatibility groups (VCG). These groups comprise strains that are able to exchange genetic material via anastomosis. Each VCG affects a few or only one host and the virulence of the pathogen varies by host. While individual V. dahliae strains are relatively host specific, as a species it has a wide range.Verticillium dahliae has a very wide host range, affecting over 300 plant species. Some susceptible crops include Brussels sprouts, cabbage, eggplant, cucumbers, mint, pepper, potatoes, pumpkin, spinach, tomato, watermelon, honeydew, and cantaloupe. Of these, tomato, potato, and eggplant have resistant or tolerant varieties.Symptoms of this disease are seen throughout the plant. Leaves may have abnormal coloration, necrotic areas, wilt, and/or fall off the plant. The stem may have discolored vascular tissue, exhibit rosetting (shortened internodes of the plant caused by reduced growth, resulting in a rosette-like appearance), and/or be stunted. Early senescence and dieback may also occur.Microsclerotia can be seen under a lens as small black structures in the vasculature of living and dead plants. This feature can be used to distinguish V. dahliae from V. albo-atrum, the other verticillium wilt pathogen.	 peach and nectarine Verticillium dahliae

The symptoms that plants exhibit in response to the pathogenicity of Xiphinema americanum are similar to those of other migratory ectoparasitic nematodes of roots. It is common to see poor growth and or stunting of the plant, yellowing or wilting of the foliage, and reduced root systems which can include root necrosis, lack of feeder or secondary roots, and occasional tufts of stubby rootlets.Young, shortleaved yellow pine trees with moderate swelling of roots with clusters of short, stubby branches were the first demonstration of X. americanum pathogenicity in 1955. X. americanum can also cause severe effects on foliage, sometimes causing chlorosis and complete defoliation as seen on Guatemalan coffee trees. The dagger nematode causes the devitalization of root tips and overall root death when they feed at the root tips and root sides of strawberry plants. Reddish-brown lesions that turn black and necrotic with time result at the sites of feeding, and result in reduced root systems and stunted tops.Xiphinema americanum is listed as a C-rated pest in California due to its wide host range of California crops. C-rated pests are widespread, and are of known economic or environmental detriment, according to The California Department of Food and Agriculture. Due to X. americanum's difficulty in maintaining high populations in frequently tilled soils (see Control), the dagger nematode is mainly an economic problem on biennial and perennial crops rather than annual crops (except for damage to emerging seedlings).	 peach and nectarine Xiphinema americanum

Significant variation in symptoms is seen between diseases, though some symptoms are expressed across species. On a macroscopic scale, plants infected with a X. fastidiosa-related disease exhibit symptoms of water, zinc, and iron deficiencies, manifesting as leaf scorching and stunting in leaves turning them yellowish-brown, gummy substance around leaves, fruit reduction in size and quality, and overall plant height.  As the bacterium progressively colonizes xylem tissues, affected plants often block off their xylem tissue, which can limit the spread of this pathogen; blocking can occur in the form of polysaccharide-rich gels, tyloses, or both.  These plant defenses do not seem to hinder the movement of X. fastidiosa. Occlusion of vascular tissue, while a normal plant response to infection, makes symptoms significantly worse; as the bacterium itself also reduces vascular function, a 90% reduction of vascular hydraulic function was seen in susceptible Vitis vinifera.  This bacterium rarely completely blocks vascular tissue. There usually is a slight amount of vascular function that keeps the plant alive, but makes its fruit or branches die, making the specific plant economically nonproductive. This can cause a massive drop on supply of quality fruit. Smaller colonies usually occur throughout a high proportion of xylem vessels of a symptomatic plant.X. fastidiosa is a Gram-negative, xylem-limited illness that is spread by insects. It can damage a variety of broadleaved tree species that are commonly grown in the United States. X. Fastidiosa can be found in about 600 different plant species.Withering and desiccation of branchesLeaf chlorosisDwarfing or lack of growth of the plantDrooping appearance and shorter internodesShriveled fruits on infected plantsPremature fruit abscissiongum-like substance on leavehardening and size reduction of fruit	 peach and nectarine Xylella fastidiosa

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 peanut Alternaria alternata

Often, food illnesses are not attributed to A. parasiticus because it is mistaken for A. flavus. Serious symptoms of aflatoxin exposure by either ingestion or inhalation of spores, or through direct skin contact, can occur amongst humans and animals. Signs and symptoms of exposure in humans may include delayed development and stunted growth among children, while adults may experience teratogenic effects, lung damage, ulcers, skin irritation, fever, and acute liver disease, which can later lead to liver carcinoma and death.	 peanut Aspergillus parasiticus

Cercospora arachidicola only infects peanut plants, causing symptoms of brown lesions with chlorotic rings on the stems, leaves, and petioles. The first macroscopic symptoms usually appear on the adaxial surface of the lower leaves about 30 to 50 days after planting. Further damage can lead to premature defoliation and even yield loss. Signs include tufts of silvery, hair-like spores on lesions during humid weather.	 peanut Cercospora arachidicola

Hosts that suffer from late leaf spot include groundnut species belonging to the genus Arachis hypogaea, and peanuts. Late leaf spot of peanut that produces sexual spores is referred to as Mycosphaerella berkeleyi, whereas the asexual spore is referred to as Cercosporidium personatum. Late leaf spot of peanut symptoms usually appear between 30–50 days following planting. Symptoms include dark brown to black pin-point spots on the upper and under side of the leaf surface. This contrasts the fewer, lighter brown spots that early leaf spot of peanut presents. Late leaf spot of peanut produces symptoms later in the season. These spores can be seen without magnification and give the spot a velvety appearance as opposed to early leaf spot of peanut, which can be seen with higher magnification. Even though these differences are slight, it is what helps to distinguish between the two pathogens.	 peanut Cercosporidium personatum

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 peanut Colletotrichum gloeosporioides

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 peanut Diplodia gossypina

In addition to potatoes, potato rot nematodes have a wide range of over 100 species of hosts from numerous families. Some of these include alfalfa, beets, carrots, garlic, hops, mint, parsnips, peanuts, rhubarb, tomatoes, and flowering plants such as irises and tulips.  The nematodes only attack the below ground, non-aerial tissues of plants such as the roots, bulbs, rhizomes, and tubers.The main symptoms of Ditylenchus destructor, common to potatoes and its other hosts, are the rotting and discoloration of subterranean plant tissue.  In potatoes, early infection can be detected by small white spots underneath the potato’s skin.  As the disease progresses, these spots become larger and darker with a spongy or hollow appearance. Tubers develop sunken areas and the skin becomes dry, cracked, and detached from the underlying flesh. There is further discoloration at this stage that is often due to secondary invasions of fungi, bacteria, and free-living nematodes.  Above ground symptoms are usually not seen, although heavily infected plants are often weaker, smaller and can have curled or discolored leaves.Symptoms of Ditylenchus destructor on the bulbs of flowering plants such as irises and tulips are similar to those of potatoes, except infection usually occurs at the bulb’s base and moves upwards.  The fleshy scales develop discolored yellow to black lesions, the roots become blackened, and leaves can develop yellow tips.   Potato rot nematodes in groundnuts, such as peanuts, develop blackened hulls, shrunken kernels, and embryos with a brown discoloration.Potato rot nematodes are identified and diagnosed by various morphological and molecular methods.  The morphological methods are the primary means of diagnosis, with molecular methods being used for when there is a low level of infestation or when only juveniles are present.  Nematodes are extracted from infected plant tissue and examined microscopically for distinguishing characteristics such as body and stylet, and tail morphology.  Molecular methods for identifying Ditylenchus destructor (especially in distinguishing from other Ditylenchus species) include PCRs (polymerase chain reactions) to find restriction patterns of DNA to identify specific species.	 peanut Ditylenchus destructor

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 peanut Fusarium solani

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 peanut Glomerella cingulata

Research has shown that plants infected by groundnut rosette virus alone show little or no effect, but that the symptoms of the disease are caused by a satellite RNA co-infection, a subviral agent. Groundnut plants affected take on a bushy appearance due to stunting and distortion of the growing shoots. There is a yellowing or mottling of the foliage. Plants affected when young may produce no nuts.There are three main types of symptoms: Chlorotic rosette is common in many parts of sub-Saharan Africa. Young leaflets become slightly mottled, and older leaflets become chlorotic with green veins. In young plants the leaves become increasingly yellow, twisted and stunted, but in older plants a few branches or just the growing point may be affected.Mosaic rosette is prevalent in East and Central Africa. Young leaves have a green and yellow mosaic appearance and later symptoms resemble those of chlorotic rosette but the plants are less severely stunted.Green rosette is known from West Africa, northern Malawi, Uganda and possibly Angola. Younger leaves show some mottling and flecking while older leaves are small and very deep green and have inrolled margins. The plants are severely stunted and resemble plants infected with peanut clump virus.The chlorotic and green types are caused by two variants of the satellite RNA while the mosaic type is caused by infection with a mixture of both variants. Further research has shown that another virus, groundnut rosette assistor virus (GRAV), is also involved in infection. Some groundnut varieties that are resistant to rosette disease have been demonstrated to be highly resistant to GRV and its satellite RNA but fully susceptible to GRAV.	 peanut Groundnut chlorotic rosette virus

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 peanut Lasiodiplodia theobromae

One of the most harmful seed and soil borne pathogens, Macrophomina phaseolina is a fungus that infects nearly 500 plant species in more than 100 families. The hosts include: peanut, cabbage, pepper, chickpea, soybean, sunflower, sweet potato, alfalfa, sesame, potato, sorghum, wheat, and corn, among others. The identification of isolates of M. phaseolina is usually based on morphology and efforts to divide the pathogen into subspecies, but because there are wide intraspecific variations in the phenotype of the isolates, these criteria are often not reliable. The failure to correctly detect and identify M. phaseolina using conventional culture-based morphological techniques has led scientists to develop nucleic acid-based molecular approaches, such as highly sensitive and specific polymerase chain reaction-based methods. Researchers have also recently created species-specific oligonucleotide primers and digoxigenin-labeled probes in hopes of better identifying and detecting M. phaseolina.The pathogen M. phaseolina affects the fibrovascular system of the roots and basal internodes of its host, impeding the transport of water and nutrients to the upper parts of the plant. As a result, progressive wilting, premature dying, loss of vigor, and reduced yield are characteristic symptoms of M. phaseolina infection. The fungus also causes many diseases like damping off, seedling blight, collar rot, stem rot, charcoal rot, basal stem rot, and root rot. Although brown lesions may form on the hypocotyls or emerging seedlings, many symptoms occur during or after flowering, including grey discoloration of the stem and taproots, shredding of plant tissue in the stem and top of the taproot, and hollowing of the stem. Small black dots may form beneath the epidermis of the lower stem and in the taproot, giving the stems and roots a charcoal-sprinkled appearance. When the epidermis is removed, small and black microsclerotia (a sign of the disease) may be so numerous that they give a greyish-black tint to the plant tissue. In addition, reddish-brown discoloration and black streaks can form in the pith and vascular tissues of the root and stem.	 peanut Macrophomina phaseolina

These nematodes cause symptoms both on leaves and roots. Foliar symptoms of root-knot disease may be expressed at any time during the growing season. These symptoms of nematode damage on peanut plants range from stunting, yellowing, wilting and even plant death.  Ferris (1999–2012), also reported that nematodes cause yellowing; mid-day wilting; symptoms of water and nutrient stress; and sometimes death, especially if the nematode is interacting with other organisms.  They can appear in a peanut crop beginning about 100 days after planting or after periods of dry hot weather.  Areas of root-knot nematode damaged peanut are usually round to oblong in shape, and rows of infected plants may never overlap as those of healthy plants. It is common for plants to wilt and eventually die in areas where nematode populations are high.Root symptoms are similar to those caused by all nematodes including a reduction in number of feeder roots and root stunting, but root knot nematodes cause unique symptoms on roots and pods. Nematodes cause galls (knots) to form on both roots and pods of the peanut, and these galls are highly diagnostic for root-knot nematode presence compared to other nematodes affecting peanut. The presence of galls on roots, pegs and pods appears as single or multiple wart-like growths that may or may not be discolored. As root knot nematode infection progresses, and generally later in the season, secondary root and pod rots cause further damage and eventual death of the plants.Many soil-borne fungi, especially Sclerotium rolfsii (which causes southern stem rot) and Sclerotinia minor (which causes Sclerotinia blight), will infect the weakened peanut plants and cause more plant death. Root knot nematode infection of the peg weakens the peg so that it breaks during harvest, contributing to additional yield losses because the detached pods are then left in the soil. Infection of the pods leads to a decline in yield quality.The damage threshold, or the initial nematode population density at which peanut yields begin to decline, has been reported to be in the range of 1 to 10 eggs and second stage juveniles per 500 cm3 soil for M. arenaria on susceptible peanut cultivars.	 peanut Meloidogyne arenaria

Meloidogyne hapla (Northern root-knot nematode) has a wide host range. It is polyphagous and affects over 550 crops and weeds. It feeds on many agricultural and horticultural plants (vegetables, fruits, ornamentals), but few grasses or cereals. A list of known hosts can be found at the bottom of this page.Symptoms can be seen in the roots, leaves, and the overall growth of the infected plant. In roots, there may be stunting, wilting, and the formation of abnormal growths called galls. Galls are usually small and spherical and are situated near many small roots. They are formed when the nematode enters the root and releases chemicals to enlarge root cells, on which they feed. The roots become defective and therefore cannot transport water and nutrients properly. The end result is stunted, wilted, and yellowing plants (characteristic of nutrient deficiency) and a decreased yield. Severity of the symptoms depends on nematode population density and host plant species and cultivar. As the number of nematodes increase in the area, the number and size of root galls increase as well. Each crop responds to Meloidogyne hapla differently. Carrots typically undergo severe forking with galling of the roots, lettuce have beadlike galls, and grasses and onions have small and barely noticeable galls and symptoms. In potato tubers (special stems), brown spots will appear on areas of the tubers where the females have laid their eggs.If a field has a patchy distribution of symptoms, it usually indicates the presence of nematodes. Most nematodes are not usually distributed uniformly in the soil. To correctly identify Meloidogyne hapla, the infected plant should be sent to a lab for a proper diagnosis. One common method is perineal pattern analysis where the perineum of the female nematode (area between the anus and the vulva) is examined for a specific pattern in ridges and annulations. Another common method is analyzing isozyme (different variations of the same enzyme produced by different genes) electrophoretic profiles using esterase and malate dehydrogenase.	 peanut Meloidogyne hapla

Because there are so many different hosts for this pathogen, the symptoms are very variable. Common symptoms include abnormal leaf color, abnormal leaf form, wilting leaves, galls, swollen roots, reduced root system, dwarfing and senescence (Cabi 2018). This pathogen does the most damage when present in light soils with hot weather conditions (Alford 2012).	 peanut Meloidogyne javanica

Hosts that suffer from late leaf spot include groundnut species belonging to the genus Arachis hypogaea, and peanuts. Late leaf spot of peanut that produces sexual spores is referred to as Mycosphaerella berkeleyi, whereas the asexual spore is referred to as Cercosporidium personatum. Late leaf spot of peanut symptoms usually appear between 30–50 days following planting. Symptoms include dark brown to black pin-point spots on the upper and under side of the leaf surface. This contrasts the fewer, lighter brown spots that early leaf spot of peanut presents. Late leaf spot of peanut produces symptoms later in the season. These spores can be seen without magnification and give the spot a velvety appearance as opposed to early leaf spot of peanut, which can be seen with higher magnification. Even though these differences are slight, it is what helps to distinguish between the two pathogens.	 peanut Mycosphaerella berkeleyi

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 peanut Nectria haematococca

The symptoms of the virus in peanuts appear as irregular dark islands on young leaves. The symptoms are not as clear on older leaves and thus can be easily missed even when the virus is in epidemic proportions in the field.In infected plant cells, the virus makes characteristic potyvirus cylindrical inclusions.  that are visible in the light microscope with proper staining.	 peanut Peanut mottle virus

Hosts that suffer from late leaf spot include groundnut species belonging to the genus Arachis hypogaea, and peanuts. Late leaf spot of peanut that produces sexual spores is referred to as Mycosphaerella berkeleyi, whereas the asexual spore is referred to as Cercosporidium personatum. Late leaf spot of peanut symptoms usually appear between 30–50 days following planting. Symptoms include dark brown to black pin-point spots on the upper and under side of the leaf surface. This contrasts the fewer, lighter brown spots that early leaf spot of peanut presents. Late leaf spot of peanut produces symptoms later in the season. These spores can be seen without magnification and give the spot a velvety appearance as opposed to early leaf spot of peanut, which can be seen with higher magnification. Even though these differences are slight, it is what helps to distinguish between the two pathogens.	 peanut Phaeoisariopsis personata

Diaporthe phaseolorum var. sojae can infect any above ground parts of the plant; the disease may be present without showing any symptoms.Early-season infection typically takes place without showing any symptoms.Mid-season symptoms appear as tiny black dots (pycnidia) on fallen leaves or abscised petioles.Late-season symptoms (pycnidia) appear on dead stems, branches and seed pods. Heavily infected seeds will often fail to germinate.Visual symptoms include:•	Light brown spots on cotyledons or lower stems,•	Small black dots (pycnidia) appear in rows along necrotic stem, branch, and petiole tissue (mature leaf tissue is not commonly infected),•	Infected seeds exhibiting: cracked seed coats, shriveling, flattening, grey mold, or black spots (pycnidia) on the seed coat.	 peanut Phomopsis sojae

Causes Phyllosticta Leaf Spot on soybeans. Forms circular lesions with reddish-brown borders and light brown center. The center of the lesion will drop out over time. Visible pycnidia can be seen in older lesions. A common consequence of infection is reduced yield from the damaged leaves.	 peanut Phyllosticta sojaecola

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 peanut Phymatotrichopsis omnivora

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 peanut Phymatotrichum omnivorum

Phytoplasmas can infect and cause various symptoms in more than 700 plant species. One characteristic symptom is abnormal floral organ development including phyllody (i.e., the production of leaf-like structures in place of flowers) and virescence (i.e., the development of green flowers attributable to a loss of pigment by petal cells). Phytoplasma-harboring flowering plants may nevertheless be sterile. The expression of genes involved in maintaining the apical meristem or in the development of floral organs is altered in the morphologically affected floral organs of phytoplasma-infected plants.A phytoplasma infection often triggers leaf yellowing, probably due to the presence of phytoplasma cells in phloem, which can affect phloem function and carbohydrate transport, inhibit chlorophyll biosynthesis, and trigger chlorophyll breakdown. These symptoms may be attributable to stress caused by the infection rather than a specific pathogenetic process.Many phytoplasma-infected plants develop a bushy or "witches' broom" appearance due to changes in their normal growth patterns. Most plants exhibit apical dominance but infection can trigger the proliferation of axillary (side) shoots and a reduction in internode size. Such symptoms are actually useful in the commercial production of poinsettias. Infection triggers more axillary shoot production; the poinsettia plants thus produce more than a single flower.	 peanut Phytoplasma

Pythium aphanidermatum is responsible for pre- and post-emergence damping off.  Pre-emergence damping off is when the seed is infected prior to germination.  This can result in poor or no germination, and is observable as a browning or rotting of the seed.  Post-emergence damping off takes place after germination and results in a thinning, water-soaked stem near the plant collar, which eventually causes the collapse of the plant.  P. aphanidermatum can also cause root rot.  Symptoms of root rot include stunted growth, chlorotic leaves, leaf drop, and wilting.  The infection begins at the root tip, and can cause the infected region to lose its protective outer layer, exposing the inner root to other pathogens	 peanut Pythium aphanidermatum

Pythium irregulare is an oomycete that causes pre- and post-emergence damping off, as well as root rot. Pre-emergence damping off occurs when P. irregulare infects seeds before they emerge, causing them to rot and turn brown, thus preventing successful growth. Alternatively, post-emergence damping off occurs when the oomycete infects just after the seed has germinated. This usually causes infection in the roots and stem which appears as water soaking and necrosis. Depending on the severity, plants may collapse or be severely stunted. In plants that are older and more established, P. irregulare causes root rot. This will initially cause necrotic lesions, which leads to chlorosis, reduced yield, poor growth, and stunting due to inadequate water and nutrient acquisition by the roots. Additionally, P. irregulare is often found coinfecting with other Pythium species. All three of these diseases caused by P. irregulare can be caused by other pathogens as well, so a disease diagnosis is not necessarily indicative of P. irregulareIn order to identify Pythium irregulare it is necessary to isolate the organism and observe it microscopically. First, it is important to identify that the microbe is an oomycete by looking for characteristics that are specific to oomycetes, such as coenocytic hyphae, zoospores, and oospores. After that, one can identify the microbe as being in the genera Pythium by observing disease symptoms, host range, as well as the presence of a vesicle, where zoospores form, which is attached to the sporangia. In contrast, most other oomycetes do not have a vesicle and the zoospores form in the sporangia. Finally, once the genera has been identified, it is helpful to use a dichotomous key to identify the species. Some of the key identifiers for P. irregulare include oogonia with irregular shaped, cylindrical projections, sporangia that occur singly, sporangia that are not filamentous, and oogonia smaller than 30 μm. There are also many genomic tests that can be done to determine species based on specific DNA markers. It is also important to note that many diagnosticians do not identify to the species level because it can be difficult to find all necessary microscopic structures and many management techniques can be applied to all Pythium species.Pythium irregulare has a very broad host range, including many agronomically and horticulturally important crops and is found on every continent except for Antarctica. P. irregulare infects over 200 species, including cereals, legumes, fruits, vegetables, and ornamentals. It differs from many other Pythium species in that it prefers cooler environments. A moist environment is also necessary for disease, which aids motility of spores. It is commonly found in both greenhouses and fields.	 peanut Pythium irregulare

Pythium myriotylum is a causal agent of soft root rot in economically important crops including peanuts, tomato, rye, wheat, oats, cucumber, soybean, sorghum, tobacco, cabbage, and maize. Pythium myriotylum causes pre-emergence damping off, it infects the seed and causes it to rot before plant growth.  This causes the plant seedling to become shriveled, soft, and brown. In a study done on soybeans, some symptoms that were seen were rotting of roots, diseased seedlings in the field, plus rotting and blight of seedlings. Pythium myriotylum can also cause post-emergence damping off in peanuts, resulting in discoloration of the seedlings and roots along with a water-soaked appearance in certain areas, these symptoms usually result in the death of the seedlings.	 peanut Pythium myriotylum

One of the most harmful seed and soil borne pathogens, Macrophomina phaseolina is a fungus that infects nearly 500 plant species in more than 100 families. The hosts include: peanut, cabbage, pepper, chickpea, soybean, sunflower, sweet potato, alfalfa, sesame, potato, sorghum, wheat, and corn, among others. The identification of isolates of M. phaseolina is usually based on morphology and efforts to divide the pathogen into subspecies, but because there are wide intraspecific variations in the phenotype of the isolates, these criteria are often not reliable. The failure to correctly detect and identify M. phaseolina using conventional culture-based morphological techniques has led scientists to develop nucleic acid-based molecular approaches, such as highly sensitive and specific polymerase chain reaction-based methods. Researchers have also recently created species-specific oligonucleotide primers and digoxigenin-labeled probes in hopes of better identifying and detecting M. phaseolina.The pathogen M. phaseolina affects the fibrovascular system of the roots and basal internodes of its host, impeding the transport of water and nutrients to the upper parts of the plant. As a result, progressive wilting, premature dying, loss of vigor, and reduced yield are characteristic symptoms of M. phaseolina infection. The fungus also causes many diseases like damping off, seedling blight, collar rot, stem rot, charcoal rot, basal stem rot, and root rot. Although brown lesions may form on the hypocotyls or emerging seedlings, many symptoms occur during or after flowering, including grey discoloration of the stem and taproots, shredding of plant tissue in the stem and top of the taproot, and hollowing of the stem. Small black dots may form beneath the epidermis of the lower stem and in the taproot, giving the stems and roots a charcoal-sprinkled appearance. When the epidermis is removed, small and black microsclerotia (a sign of the disease) may be so numerous that they give a greyish-black tint to the plant tissue. In addition, reddish-brown discoloration and black streaks can form in the pith and vascular tissues of the root and stem.	 peanut Rhizoctonia bataticola

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 peanut Rhizoctonia solani

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 peanut Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

The disease caused by Sphaceloma arachidis is commonly known as Peanut Scab or Groundnut Scab. As seen by the name, it affects Arachis hypogaea or peanuts. Peanuts are grown in warm areas, which determines where this disease is normally found. It has created difficulties in countries such as Brazil and Argentina that are big peanut exporters. The United States and Africa are also large exporters of the crop.One of the first symptoms observed are lesions or scabs on the leaves. As the disease progresses, necrosis and hyperplasia begin to affect the plant. The symptoms continue to spread from the leaves to the petioles and stem. It is typical for a scab disease to cause "crustaceous lesions on fruit, tuber, leaf, or stem" and to affect the whole plant.	 peanut Sphaceloma arachidis

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 peanut Thanatephorus cucumeris

TSWV infects a variety of hosts, contributing to its global economic impact on crops. There are over a thousand different hosts for TSWV. The host range of TSWV includes agronomically important crops like tomatoes and tobacco. The symptoms of TSWV vary from host to host. There is also variability of symptoms within a single type of host due to the age of the plant, nutrition and the environment (especially temperature). Common symptoms include stunting, ringspots on fruit and necrosis of leaves. There are many different strains of TSWV, and differences in symptoms may also be attributed to the differences in the number of strains present.	 peanut Tomato spotted wilt virus

There are many strains of Verticillium dahliae which are categorized into vegetative compatibility groups (VCG). These groups comprise strains that are able to exchange genetic material via anastomosis. Each VCG affects a few or only one host and the virulence of the pathogen varies by host. While individual V. dahliae strains are relatively host specific, as a species it has a wide range.Verticillium dahliae has a very wide host range, affecting over 300 plant species. Some susceptible crops include Brussels sprouts, cabbage, eggplant, cucumbers, mint, pepper, potatoes, pumpkin, spinach, tomato, watermelon, honeydew, and cantaloupe. Of these, tomato, potato, and eggplant have resistant or tolerant varieties.Symptoms of this disease are seen throughout the plant. Leaves may have abnormal coloration, necrotic areas, wilt, and/or fall off the plant. The stem may have discolored vascular tissue, exhibit rosetting (shortened internodes of the plant caused by reduced growth, resulting in a rosette-like appearance), and/or be stunted. Early senescence and dieback may also occur.Microsclerotia can be seen under a lens as small black structures in the vasculature of living and dead plants. This feature can be used to distinguish V. dahliae from V. albo-atrum, the other verticillium wilt pathogen.	 peanut Verticillium dahliae

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 pear Alternaria alternata

Armillaria mellea typically infects hardwood trees and conifers but sometimes will infect non-woody monocots and a few herbaceous plants. There are few signs, and the ones that do exist are often hard to find. The most prominent sign is honey-colored mushrooms at the base of the infected plant. Additional signs include white, fan-shaped mycelia and black rhizomorphs with diameters between 1/32nd of an inch and 1/8th of an inch. These usually are not as noticeable because they occur beneath the bark and in the soil, respectively. The symptoms are much more numerous, including slower growth, dieback of branches, yellowing foliage, rotted wood at base and/or roots, external cankers, cracking bark, bleeding stem, leaf wilting, defoliation, and rapid death. Leaf wilting, defoliation, and dieback occur after the destruction of the cambium.	 pear Armillaria mellea

Armillaria species infect a wide variety of woody plants. In a survey of 250 permanent plots of trees in Albania, Armillaria tabescens affected multiple species of trees including fir species, where it invaded when the plant was stressed. Tsopelas et al. reported Armillaria tabescens to be more prevalent in areas where the trees were stressed due to limited moisture. In oak trees, it was slightly more damaging and could kill young trees. Armillaria tabescens was also recorded in poplar and eucalyptus plantations, and almond trees were found to be very susceptible to infection. The results of the study by Lushaj et al. showed that Armillaria tabescens was most frequently recorded on fruit and ornamental trees compared to the other species.Armillaria tabescens causes separation of the bark from the wood by the production of mycelial fans in the trunk, a common sign of Armillaria root rot. It also causes gummosis, patches of gummy material on the surface of plants, which occurs in response to an external stimulus which causes the plant to ooze sap. Other common symptoms are soft rot of cortex, dwarfing, dieback, wilting, and abnormal coloring of the leaves. Small trees are killed rapidly by Armillaria tabescens and the symptoms aren’t noticeable until the leaves wilt. However, on larger trees symptoms occur earlier and start as a thin crown with small leaves. A crown of a tree refers to any branches or foliage that are growing out from the trunk. Therefore, thinning of the crown would mean reduced branches and leaves. The trees eventually start yellowing and defoliating followed by fast wilting and dying of limbs. The fungus is a white rot so it breaks down lignin in the wood. The breaking down of the lignin leads to the trees becoming hollow.	 pear Armillaria tabescens

Black rotBotryosphaeria obtusa enters the fruit through wounds. These can be made by insects, birds or growth cracks. At first a brown spot, near the calyx, appears on the fruit. The spot on the fruit then enlarges and black/brown rings appear on the fruit. The fruit holds its shape, however, unlike other fruit diseases. The fruit will then wither up and can remain on the tree for another year before falling off. During this time pycnidia appear on the surface of the rotted fruit.Frogeye leaf spotIn leaves the fungus begins by causing purple specks on infected leaves. These then enlarge to cause large spots on the leaf, developing a brown color. The spots appear to have rings of brown with a purple margin, thus giving it its frogeye appearance. The spots can then produce pycnidia which can separate this species of fungus from other possible leaf fungi.CankerOn twigs, branches and trunks B. obtusa can infect where there has been a winter injury or fire blight cankers. Slightly sunken reddish/brown spots appear on the infected areas of bark. These then enlarge to form cankers, which can then enlarge slightly more each year. The bark usually dies and can, after time, be pulled away from the tree. In older cankers the pycnidia appear on the bark.Black dead arm disease of grapevineBotryosphaeria obtusa is the pathogen of black dead arm disease of grapevine. It has been shown to be able to oxidise wood δ-resveratrol into delta-viniferin.	 pear Botryosphaeria obtusa

Armillaria species infect a wide variety of woody plants. In a survey of 250 permanent plots of trees in Albania, Armillaria tabescens affected multiple species of trees including fir species, where it invaded when the plant was stressed. Tsopelas et al. reported Armillaria tabescens to be more prevalent in areas where the trees were stressed due to limited moisture. In oak trees, it was slightly more damaging and could kill young trees. Armillaria tabescens was also recorded in poplar and eucalyptus plantations, and almond trees were found to be very susceptible to infection. The results of the study by Lushaj et al. showed that Armillaria tabescens was most frequently recorded on fruit and ornamental trees compared to the other species.Armillaria tabescens causes separation of the bark from the wood by the production of mycelial fans in the trunk, a common sign of Armillaria root rot. It also causes gummosis, patches of gummy material on the surface of plants, which occurs in response to an external stimulus which causes the plant to ooze sap. Other common symptoms are soft rot of cortex, dwarfing, dieback, wilting, and abnormal coloring of the leaves. Small trees are killed rapidly by Armillaria tabescens and the symptoms aren’t noticeable until the leaves wilt. However, on larger trees symptoms occur earlier and start as a thin crown with small leaves. A crown of a tree refers to any branches or foliage that are growing out from the trunk. Therefore, thinning of the crown would mean reduced branches and leaves. The trees eventually start yellowing and defoliating followed by fast wilting and dying of limbs. The fungus is a white rot so it breaks down lignin in the wood. The breaking down of the lignin leads to the trees becoming hollow.	 pear Clitocybe tabescens

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 pear Colletotrichum gloeosporioides

Tissues affected by the symptoms of Erwinia amylovora include blossoms, fruits, shoots, and branches of apple (Pomoideae), pear, and many other rosaceous plants. All symptoms are above ground and are typically easy to recognize. Symptoms on blossoms include water soaking of the floral receptacle, ovary, and peduncles. This results in a dull, gray-green appearance 1–2 weeks after petal fall, and eventually tissues will shrivel and turn black. The base of the blossom and young fruit show similar symptoms as infection spreads. Opaque white- or amber-colored droplets of bacterial ooze can be seen on the infected tissue in high humidity. Shoots show similar symptoms but these develop much more rapidly. A “Shepherd's Crook” can occur when the tip of the shoot wilts, and diseased shoot leaves typically have blackening along the mid-vein and before they die. When numerous, diseased shoots give the tree a blighted appearance. Infection of blossoms and shoots can spread to larger tree limbs. Branches will darken and become water soaked, eventually cracks will develop in bark. Wood under the bark will become streaked with black discoloration. Immature fruit forms water-soaked lesions and later turns black. Bacterial ooze can be found on these lesions. Severe infections result in fruit turning entirely black and shrivelling.	 pear Erwinia amylovora

Tissues affected by the symptoms of Erwinia amylovora include blossoms, fruits, shoots, and branches of apple (Pomoideae), pear, and many other rosaceous plants. All symptoms are above ground and are typically easy to recognize. Symptoms on blossoms include water soaking of the floral receptacle, ovary, and peduncles. This results in a dull, gray-green appearance 1–2 weeks after petal fall, and eventually tissues will shrivel and turn black. The base of the blossom and young fruit show similar symptoms as infection spreads. Opaque white- or amber-colored droplets of bacterial ooze can be seen on the infected tissue in high humidity. Shoots show similar symptoms but these develop much more rapidly. A “Shepherd's Crook” can occur when the tip of the shoot wilts, and diseased shoot leaves typically have blackening along the mid-vein and before they die. When numerous, diseased shoots give the tree a blighted appearance. Infection of blossoms and shoots can spread to larger tree limbs. Branches will darken and become water soaked, eventually cracks will develop in bark. Wood under the bark will become streaked with black discoloration. Immature fruit forms water-soaked lesions and later turns black. Bacterial ooze can be found on these lesions. Severe infections result in fruit turning entirely black and shrivelling.	 pear Fire blight

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 pear Glomerella cingulata

Gymnosporangium globosum is a heteroecious rust fungus that requires two hosts to complete its life cycle. Its telial stage occurs on eastern red cedar, Rocky Mountain juniper, southern red cedar, and other common junipers while its aecial stage will be found on apple, crabapple, hawthorne, and occasionally on pear, quince, and serviceberry. The symptoms on the evergreens (telial stage) start with small galls that form on its twigs and small branches. After the galls grow to be ⅛ to ½ inch in diameter, circular indents (similar to those of a golf ball) will begin to appear on the twig side of the gall. Once spring arrives, a reddish-brown structure will begin to grow out of the indent eventually producing orange, jelly-like telial horns. These telial horns can reach up to 4 inches long and can be easily seen. The symptoms of the deciduous trees (aecial stage) begin with yellow spots that progress into orange-red as the season continues. Black dots (spermagonia) will then develop in the center of the lesion. Mature lesions will then produce small tubes (aecia). These lesions can be found on leaves, petioles, twigs, and fruit. The aecia are approximately ⅛ inch long.	 pear Gymnosporangium globosum

Brown rot causes blossom blight, twig blight; twig canker and fruit rot.  Brown rot is caused by a fungus that produces spores, and can be a major problem during particularly wet seasons.  Prolonged wet weather during bloom may result in extensive blossom infection.  The length of wet periods required for blossom infection depends upon the temperature.  Humid wet conditions are when the fruit trees are most at risk from infection.  Young green fruit can be infected just before autumn, but the infection often remains inactive until near maturity of the fruit.  Brown rot can spread after harvest. Mature fruit can decay in only 2 days under warm conditions.Blossom Blight: Infected blossoms wilt, shrivel and become covered with greyish mould.  Petals may appear light brown or water-soaked.  Blighted blossoms do not produce fruit.  Dead blossoms may stick to spurs and twigs until harvest, providing a source of spores for the fruit rot phase.Twig Blight and Canker: On peaches and apricots the infection may spread to twigs, causing brownish, oval cankers that may girdle and kill twigs.	 pear Monilinia fructicola

Nectria cinnabarina, also known as coral spot, is a weak pathogen of broadleaf trees. While beech is the main host, the parasite can also affect Sycamore, Horse Chestnut, and Hornbeam. This pathogen usually affects trees that have already been weakened as a result of stressful factors, such as drought or fungal infestation. Physical damage can also make the tree susceptible to the pathogen. The pathogen forms pink fungal blobs (indicative of its sexual stage) on the outside of dead wood which turn a reddish-brown color and become quite hard. The blobs are usually 1 to 4 mm in length. Other symptoms include small twigs and branches dying back and branch necrosis. The bark that is infected becomes weak and tends to snap off in windy weather. The pathogen thrives in dead wood and airborne spores infect living trees and shrubs through wounds. Since it is caused by a weak fungus, isolation of the pathogen from diseased tissue and an analysis for fungal properties, such as induced sporulation or microscopically seeing cross-walls in hyphae, can aid in diagnosis. Furthermore, many fungi studies in media involve the formation of concentric hyphal zonations or rings of sporulation as the colony develops. This zonation is usually attributed to environmental changes. The sporulation rhythm of N. cinnabarina is conveyed by concentric rings or spirals and is dependent on temperature.	 pear Nectria cinnabarina

Black rotBotryosphaeria obtusa enters the fruit through wounds. These can be made by insects, birds or growth cracks. At first a brown spot, near the calyx, appears on the fruit. The spot on the fruit then enlarges and black/brown rings appear on the fruit. The fruit holds its shape, however, unlike other fruit diseases. The fruit will then wither up and can remain on the tree for another year before falling off. During this time pycnidia appear on the surface of the rotted fruit.Frogeye leaf spotIn leaves the fungus begins by causing purple specks on infected leaves. These then enlarge to cause large spots on the leaf, developing a brown color. The spots appear to have rings of brown with a purple margin, thus giving it its frogeye appearance. The spots can then produce pycnidia which can separate this species of fungus from other possible leaf fungi.CankerOn twigs, branches and trunks B. obtusa can infect where there has been a winter injury or fire blight cankers. Slightly sunken reddish/brown spots appear on the infected areas of bark. These then enlarge to form cankers, which can then enlarge slightly more each year. The bark usually dies and can, after time, be pulled away from the tree. In older cankers the pycnidia appear on the bark.Black dead arm disease of grapevineBotryosphaeria obtusa is the pathogen of black dead arm disease of grapevine. It has been shown to be able to oxidise wood δ-resveratrol into delta-viniferin.	 pear Physalospora malorum

Phytophthora cactorum has an extremely wide host range, and can infect over 200 species or 160 genera of trees, ornamentals, and fruit crops. In general, P. cactorum is capable of infecting both young and old plants, and causes root rots and crown rots of the many genera it infects. Although the symptoms this pathogen produces varies between the types of organisms it infects, in general disease occurs during periods that are both wet and warm. Furthermore, most infections are caused by zoospores entering the plant through wounds.: 34 On older trees, P. cactorum causes the formation of sap exuding dark colored cankers on the trunks of trees, as well as leaf size and number reduction, chlorosis, and dieback of branches. The diagnosis of a P. cactorum infection of trees, is based on the identification of symptoms, in particular the oozing cankers, and confirmation of symptoms in a diagnosis lab or utilization of a field ELISA detection kit. P. cactorum can be a major problem in apple orchards, as it can cause crown, collar, and root rots in apple trees. When infecting apple trees, the organism can attack through wounds either above or below the soil line, impairing phloem and root function, and causing stunting, foliar disorders, and death after several years. Furthermore, because the pathogen causes damage to the phloem of the tree, one diagnostic method is to check for necrotic phloem tissue at the base of the tree which will be orange to red-brown in the early stages and dark brown in the later stages of infection.A good example of P. cactorum causing foliar disease is on ginseng. Foliar disease of ginseng usually occurs during May and early June, causing the leaves to become transparent and papery. Ginseng foliar infection occurs through the rain splash dispersal of spores from the soil onto above ground wounds. Once infected, P. cactorum works its way down to the roots, rotting them and killing the plant.P. cactorum is also one of the causal agents of black rot on orchids. When infecting orchids, this organism first produces small black lesions on the pseudobulbs of the orchid, which then enlarge and may engulf the entire pseudobulb, leaf, or move through the rhizomes to other portions of the plant prior to killing it. Diagnosis of orchid black rot by P. cactorum is through the identification of lemon-shaped zoosporangia with either a papilla or a short pedicel, the presence of oospores, or molecular identification. Since there are multiple species of Phytophthora that are capable of causing disease on orchids, classification only to the genus level is required for proper prescription of disease management techniques.Crown rot or root rot of strawberries is a common example of diseases of fruit crops caused by P. cactorum. On strawberries, P. cactorum infects the roots and the base of the plant causing stunting and reduced leaf size, with possible complete plant collapse later in the season. Similarly to apple trees, crown rots of strawberries caused by P. cactorum can be partially diagnosed by cutting the crown of the plant and observing brown vascular tissues, and root rots by brown or black stunted roots.Leather rot of strawberry is an additional disease affecting strawberry plants, with P. cactorum being the causal agent. Symptoms of this disease include brown patches or green patches with a brown border in immature fruit, with infected mature fruit displaying a purple to brown color, and becoming hard, leathery, or even mummified. Signs include visible mycelium inside of hollow infected berries, as well as mycelium on the surface of berries.  Infected fruit often has an unpleasant taste and odor, which is diagnostic. 	 pear Phytophthora cactorum

Phytoplasmas can infect and cause various symptoms in more than 700 plant species. One characteristic symptom is abnormal floral organ development including phyllody (i.e., the production of leaf-like structures in place of flowers) and virescence (i.e., the development of green flowers attributable to a loss of pigment by petal cells). Phytoplasma-harboring flowering plants may nevertheless be sterile. The expression of genes involved in maintaining the apical meristem or in the development of floral organs is altered in the morphologically affected floral organs of phytoplasma-infected plants.A phytoplasma infection often triggers leaf yellowing, probably due to the presence of phytoplasma cells in phloem, which can affect phloem function and carbohydrate transport, inhibit chlorophyll biosynthesis, and trigger chlorophyll breakdown. These symptoms may be attributable to stress caused by the infection rather than a specific pathogenetic process.Many phytoplasma-infected plants develop a bushy or "witches' broom" appearance due to changes in their normal growth patterns. Most plants exhibit apical dominance but infection can trigger the proliferation of axillary (side) shoots and a reduction in internode size. Such symptoms are actually useful in the commercial production of poinsettias. Infection triggers more axillary shoot production; the poinsettia plants thus produce more than a single flower.	 pear Phytoplasma

Powdery mildew, caused by the obligate biotrophic ascomycete Podosphaera leucotricha, is one of the major diseases of cultivated apple throughout the world. The primary host is apple, but other fruit like peaches and quince provide a host for Podosphaera leucotricha.  A list of host plants/species affected includes Cydonia oblonga (quince), Malus (apple), Prunus persica (peach), Prunus domestica (plum), Pyrus (pears), and Mespilus germanica (medlar). On apples, the fungus affects twigs, foliage, blossoms, and fruits of current season growth. Infected plants are characterized by reduced photosynthesis and transpiration, resulting suboptimal carbohydrate assimilation and reduced growth.Podosphaera leucotricha causes a range of symptoms. On stems, symptoms include wilting and discoloration. Wilting and leaf curling occur on leaves. Symptoms of the inflorescence include discoloration (non-graminous plants), dwarfing, stunting, and twisting. On fruit symptoms include net-like russeting and deformed fruit. Depending on the stage in the disease cycle, symptoms vary. The primary blossom mildew emerges at pink bud stage. Flowers are deformed with pale green or yellow petal and are covered in white mycelium and spores. The secondary mildew may have lesions that appear as chlorotic spots on the upper leaf surface. Symptoms of the secondary mildew also included distorted leaves and premature falling of leaves.	 pear Podosphaera leucotricha

Root lesion nematodes infect a great variety of hosts. Pratylenchus penetrans alone has over 350 host plants. They include agricultural crops such as soybeans, potatoes, corn, bananas, and wheat. The genus is found most often in corn. Signs of disease are similar in most plants and generally include necrotic lesions of the roots. The lesions can also be entrances for pathogenic bacteria and fungi, which produce secondary infections. Above ground the plant becomes stunted, chlorotic, and wilted, and it often dies. A crop field may be patchy as plants wither and die. Root lesion nematodes can cause significant yield losses.	 pear Pratylenchus

Root lesion nematode has a wide host range, including hosts like apple, cherry, conifers, roses, tomato, potato, corn, onion and sugarbeets, and ornamentals such as Narcissus. More than 164 hosts for P. penetrans have been recorded.  In the host range there are some hosts that are susceptible, such as wheat, oat, field pea, faba bean, and chickpea, and some that are moderately susceptible, such as barley and canola.Some general symptoms that are produced on infected plants include poor growth, fruit spot, and chlorotic foliage.  These secondary symptoms are often due to plant root stress.  These make it rather difficult to diagnose nematode diseases in general.  The roots when infected produce necrotic lesions, which are darkened areas of dead tissue, on the surface and throughout the cortex of the infected roots.  These lesions turn the root to reddish-brown to black and are initially spotty.  As the nematode continues to feed, the lesions can coalesce to become large necrotic areas of tissue that may eventually girdle the root. The population size of the nematode affects the degree of symptoms.  Low to moderate populations may cause no visible above ground symptoms, while high populations can lead to stunting, nutrient and water deficiencies, and eventual die-back of the plant.  On potato, infection of root lesion nematode can cause a secondary invasion by Verticillium dahliae leading to Potato Early Dying.  Onions are another important host of P. penetrans.  Onions are an important vegetable for consumption in the United States and upon infection the nematodes can limit yield and quality of the bulbs.  Populations of more than 0.01 nematode per cubic centimeter of soil resulted in injury to onions.  There is a negative relationship between the increasing inoculum levels on onion root and top fresh weight at harvest.	 pear Pratylenchus penetrans

Nectria cinnabarina, also known as coral spot, is a weak pathogen of broadleaf trees. While beech is the main host, the parasite can also affect Sycamore, Horse Chestnut, and Hornbeam. This pathogen usually affects trees that have already been weakened as a result of stressful factors, such as drought or fungal infestation. Physical damage can also make the tree susceptible to the pathogen. The pathogen forms pink fungal blobs (indicative of its sexual stage) on the outside of dead wood which turn a reddish-brown color and become quite hard. The blobs are usually 1 to 4 mm in length. Other symptoms include small twigs and branches dying back and branch necrosis. The bark that is infected becomes weak and tends to snap off in windy weather. The pathogen thrives in dead wood and airborne spores infect living trees and shrubs through wounds. Since it is caused by a weak fungus, isolation of the pathogen from diseased tissue and an analysis for fungal properties, such as induced sporulation or microscopically seeing cross-walls in hyphae, can aid in diagnosis. Furthermore, many fungi studies in media involve the formation of concentric hyphal zonations or rings of sporulation as the colony develops. This zonation is usually attributed to environmental changes. The sporulation rhythm of N. cinnabarina is conveyed by concentric rings or spirals and is dependent on temperature.	 pear Tubercularia vulgaris

The symptoms that plants exhibit in response to the pathogenicity of Xiphinema americanum are similar to those of other migratory ectoparasitic nematodes of roots. It is common to see poor growth and or stunting of the plant, yellowing or wilting of the foliage, and reduced root systems which can include root necrosis, lack of feeder or secondary roots, and occasional tufts of stubby rootlets.Young, shortleaved yellow pine trees with moderate swelling of roots with clusters of short, stubby branches were the first demonstration of X. americanum pathogenicity in 1955. X. americanum can also cause severe effects on foliage, sometimes causing chlorosis and complete defoliation as seen on Guatemalan coffee trees. The dagger nematode causes the devitalization of root tips and overall root death when they feed at the root tips and root sides of strawberry plants. Reddish-brown lesions that turn black and necrotic with time result at the sites of feeding, and result in reduced root systems and stunted tops.Xiphinema americanum is listed as a C-rated pest in California due to its wide host range of California crops. C-rated pests are widespread, and are of known economic or environmental detriment, according to The California Department of Food and Agriculture. Due to X. americanum's difficulty in maintaining high populations in frequently tilled soils (see Control), the dagger nematode is mainly an economic problem on biennial and perennial crops rather than annual crops (except for damage to emerging seedlings).	 pear Xiphinema americanum

Small holes or 'windows' in straight lines across the newest leaves of maize or sorghum. Eggs are found on the underside of the leaf; they are ~ 1mm  creamy white/yellowish in colour which may darken as the develop. As the infestation develops symptoms include: weak stems, damage to growing parts, prevention of flowering and dead hearts.Stalk borers make a hole into the stem and feed inside these stems, which disrupts nutrient and water flow in the plant. The plants become stunted and produce maize cobs that are up to 30% smaller.	 pearl millet Busseola fusca

When looking for symptoms of MDMV in corn, one must also be aware of the plant’s growth stage as symptoms may affect the plant differently at various stages.  Young leaves, may experience chlorotic spotting which may eventually turn into a mosaic or mottle pattern (“Maize Dwarf Mosaic Virus,” n.d.).  Later in the growing season, the mosaic pattern may bleed into a general yellowing of the leaf and eventually areas of red streaks or blotches may appear if night time temperatures are consistently around 60 degrees Fahrenheit (Lipps & Mills, n.d.).  Plants affected later in their reproductive cycle may experience a slowing in ear development (“Maize Dwarf Mosaic Virus,” n.d.), while some plants may even become barren (Lipps & Mills, n.d.).  It is not uncommon for plants to have shortened upper internodes or an increase in tiller number (“Maize Dwarf Mosaic Virus,” n.d.).	 pearl millet Maize dwarf mosaic virus

These nematodes cause symptoms both on leaves and roots. Foliar symptoms of root-knot disease may be expressed at any time during the growing season. These symptoms of nematode damage on peanut plants range from stunting, yellowing, wilting and even plant death.  Ferris (1999–2012), also reported that nematodes cause yellowing; mid-day wilting; symptoms of water and nutrient stress; and sometimes death, especially if the nematode is interacting with other organisms.  They can appear in a peanut crop beginning about 100 days after planting or after periods of dry hot weather.  Areas of root-knot nematode damaged peanut are usually round to oblong in shape, and rows of infected plants may never overlap as those of healthy plants. It is common for plants to wilt and eventually die in areas where nematode populations are high.Root symptoms are similar to those caused by all nematodes including a reduction in number of feeder roots and root stunting, but root knot nematodes cause unique symptoms on roots and pods. Nematodes cause galls (knots) to form on both roots and pods of the peanut, and these galls are highly diagnostic for root-knot nematode presence compared to other nematodes affecting peanut. The presence of galls on roots, pegs and pods appears as single or multiple wart-like growths that may or may not be discolored. As root knot nematode infection progresses, and generally later in the season, secondary root and pod rots cause further damage and eventual death of the plants.Many soil-borne fungi, especially Sclerotium rolfsii (which causes southern stem rot) and Sclerotinia minor (which causes Sclerotinia blight), will infect the weakened peanut plants and cause more plant death. Root knot nematode infection of the peg weakens the peg so that it breaks during harvest, contributing to additional yield losses because the detached pods are then left in the soil. Infection of the pods leads to a decline in yield quality.The damage threshold, or the initial nematode population density at which peanut yields begin to decline, has been reported to be in the range of 1 to 10 eggs and second stage juveniles per 500 cm3 soil for M. arenaria on susceptible peanut cultivars.	 pearl millet Meloidogyne arenaria

Plants affected by M. incognita present above ground symptoms of water- and nutrient-stress, yellowing, wilting, and stunting. Below ground galling on roots, bulbs, tubers is the typical symptom. Plant death may occur in high infestation level.	 pearl millet Meloidogyne incognita

 M. grisea is an ascomycete fungus. It is an extremely effective plant pathogen as it can reproduce both sexually and asexually to produce specialized infectious structures known as appressoria that infect aerial tissues and hyphae that can infect root tissues.Rice blast has been observed on rice strains M-201, M-202, M-204, M-205, M-103, M-104, S-102, L-204, Calmochi-101, with M-201 being the most vulnerable. Initial symptoms are white to gray-green lesions or spots with darker borders produced on all parts of the shoot, while older lesions are elliptical or spindle-shaped and whitish to gray with necrotic borders. Lesions may enlarge and coalesce to kill the entire leaf. Symptoms are observed on all above-ground parts of the plant. Lesions can be seen on the leaf collar, culm, culm nodes, and panicle neck node. Internodal infection of the culm occurs in a banded pattern. Nodal infection causes the culm to break at the infected node (rotten neck). It also affects reproduction by causing the host to produce fewer seeds. This is caused by the disease preventing maturation of the actual grain.	 pearl millet Pyricularia grisea

Radopholus similis parasites can be found in tropical climates, and therefore infect a lot of plants native to tropical areas. Common hosts that are economically important include: banana, coconut, coffee, ginger, sugarcane, ornamentals, and tea. Although R. similis has not been found to infect citrus plants, it is closely related to another variety of burrowing nematodes, Radopholus citrophilus, that is a prominent pathogen to citrus plants. As with a plethora of root diseases, the main symptoms of an infection from burrowing nematodes are stunted growth, rotting roots, and necrotic roots. They are migratory endoparasites, and therefore can cause many localized necrotic patches throughout an infected root system. R. similis signs are generally only seen in the roots, but secondary symptoms such as wilting, weakened structure, and stunting can be caused by the root damage these parasites inflict. In fact, infection via these parasites is referred to as “banana toppling disease” in bananas because the plants often topple due to severe root damage by these nematodes. Prominent symptoms can also vary by host. Black pepper plants often undergo yellowing due to lack of nutrient uptake, ginger plants often become stunted and develop lesions, and tea plants also exhibit stunting and leaf loss.	 pearl millet Radopholus similis

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 pearl millet Rhizoctonia solani

The caterpillars mainly bore into rice stems or the base of the panicle. After infection, the stem becomes wilted causing deadheart. Panicle attack leads to panicle to be cut leading to state called whitehead. Symptoms are mostly similar to other stem borers and hence closer look required to control the attack.	 pearl millet Sesamia inferens

The symptoms that plants exhibit in response to the pathogenicity of Xiphinema americanum are similar to those of other migratory ectoparasitic nematodes of roots. It is common to see poor growth and or stunting of the plant, yellowing or wilting of the foliage, and reduced root systems which can include root necrosis, lack of feeder or secondary roots, and occasional tufts of stubby rootlets.Young, shortleaved yellow pine trees with moderate swelling of roots with clusters of short, stubby branches were the first demonstration of X. americanum pathogenicity in 1955. X. americanum can also cause severe effects on foliage, sometimes causing chlorosis and complete defoliation as seen on Guatemalan coffee trees. The dagger nematode causes the devitalization of root tips and overall root death when they feed at the root tips and root sides of strawberry plants. Reddish-brown lesions that turn black and necrotic with time result at the sites of feeding, and result in reduced root systems and stunted tops.Xiphinema americanum is listed as a C-rated pest in California due to its wide host range of California crops. C-rated pests are widespread, and are of known economic or environmental detriment, according to The California Department of Food and Agriculture. Due to X. americanum's difficulty in maintaining high populations in frequently tilled soils (see Control), the dagger nematode is mainly an economic problem on biennial and perennial crops rather than annual crops (except for damage to emerging seedlings).	 pearl millet Xiphinema americanum

Armillaria species infect a wide variety of woody plants. In a survey of 250 permanent plots of trees in Albania, Armillaria tabescens affected multiple species of trees including fir species, where it invaded when the plant was stressed. Tsopelas et al. reported Armillaria tabescens to be more prevalent in areas where the trees were stressed due to limited moisture. In oak trees, it was slightly more damaging and could kill young trees. Armillaria tabescens was also recorded in poplar and eucalyptus plantations, and almond trees were found to be very susceptible to infection. The results of the study by Lushaj et al. showed that Armillaria tabescens was most frequently recorded on fruit and ornamental trees compared to the other species.Armillaria tabescens causes separation of the bark from the wood by the production of mycelial fans in the trunk, a common sign of Armillaria root rot. It also causes gummosis, patches of gummy material on the surface of plants, which occurs in response to an external stimulus which causes the plant to ooze sap. Other common symptoms are soft rot of cortex, dwarfing, dieback, wilting, and abnormal coloring of the leaves. Small trees are killed rapidly by Armillaria tabescens and the symptoms aren’t noticeable until the leaves wilt. However, on larger trees symptoms occur earlier and start as a thin crown with small leaves. A crown of a tree refers to any branches or foliage that are growing out from the trunk. Therefore, thinning of the crown would mean reduced branches and leaves. The trees eventually start yellowing and defoliating followed by fast wilting and dying of limbs. The fungus is a white rot so it breaks down lignin in the wood. The breaking down of the lignin leads to the trees becoming hollow.	 pecan Armillaria tabescens

An irregular browning leaf margin which may or may not be bordered by a pale halo.Symptoms re-occur every year, spreading throughout the tree crown, eventually killing the host plant.	 pecan Bacterial leaf scorch

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 pecan Botryosphaeria rhodina

Armillaria species infect a wide variety of woody plants. In a survey of 250 permanent plots of trees in Albania, Armillaria tabescens affected multiple species of trees including fir species, where it invaded when the plant was stressed. Tsopelas et al. reported Armillaria tabescens to be more prevalent in areas where the trees were stressed due to limited moisture. In oak trees, it was slightly more damaging and could kill young trees. Armillaria tabescens was also recorded in poplar and eucalyptus plantations, and almond trees were found to be very susceptible to infection. The results of the study by Lushaj et al. showed that Armillaria tabescens was most frequently recorded on fruit and ornamental trees compared to the other species.Armillaria tabescens causes separation of the bark from the wood by the production of mycelial fans in the trunk, a common sign of Armillaria root rot. It also causes gummosis, patches of gummy material on the surface of plants, which occurs in response to an external stimulus which causes the plant to ooze sap. Other common symptoms are soft rot of cortex, dwarfing, dieback, wilting, and abnormal coloring of the leaves. Small trees are killed rapidly by Armillaria tabescens and the symptoms aren’t noticeable until the leaves wilt. However, on larger trees symptoms occur earlier and start as a thin crown with small leaves. A crown of a tree refers to any branches or foliage that are growing out from the trunk. Therefore, thinning of the crown would mean reduced branches and leaves. The trees eventually start yellowing and defoliating followed by fast wilting and dying of limbs. The fungus is a white rot so it breaks down lignin in the wood. The breaking down of the lignin leads to the trees becoming hollow.	 pecan Clitocybe tabescens

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 pecan Colletotrichum gloeosporioides

Venturia effusa has a narrow host range, and its most economically significant host is the pecan, Carya illinoinensis. The pathogen can also infect other trees in the genera Carya and Juglans (walnut). Common symptoms of pecan scab disease include light brown to black lesions on stems, leaves, shucks and nuts. Visible circular lesions begin to develop 7 to 14 days after infection, and first appear on young tissue as olive-green spots that turn black as they age. Older lesions may crack and fall out of the leaf-blade creating a shot-hole affect. Lesions range in diameter from a pinpoint to about one-quarter inch, and occur most numerously along leaf veins. Numerous lesions can coalesce into larger dead areas on infected tissue and can cause early leaf loss. Lesions on nuts may look sunken and distort nut morphology. They may also cause nuts to shrivel or drop prematurely. Lesions are amphigenous, meaning they grow on both sides of leaves.	 pecan Fusicladium effusum

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 pecan Glomerella cingulata

In susceptible crops, any parts below the ground are liable to infection. The mycelium of the fungus forms a matted, felt-like purple covering which grows over the surface of the root. Soil particles adhere to this and small, dark-coloured sclerotia grow among the hyphae. A dry rot occurs and secondary rots may move in. Mycelial threads, often merging into strands, grow through the soil and infect nearby plants. A pink or brown mat of mycelial threads may grow above the soil surface. In affected plants, the aerial parts may wilt and have discoloured, stunted foliage.	 pecan Helicobasidium brebissonii

These nematodes cause symptoms both on leaves and roots. Foliar symptoms of root-knot disease may be expressed at any time during the growing season. These symptoms of nematode damage on peanut plants range from stunting, yellowing, wilting and even plant death.  Ferris (1999–2012), also reported that nematodes cause yellowing; mid-day wilting; symptoms of water and nutrient stress; and sometimes death, especially if the nematode is interacting with other organisms.  They can appear in a peanut crop beginning about 100 days after planting or after periods of dry hot weather.  Areas of root-knot nematode damaged peanut are usually round to oblong in shape, and rows of infected plants may never overlap as those of healthy plants. It is common for plants to wilt and eventually die in areas where nematode populations are high.Root symptoms are similar to those caused by all nematodes including a reduction in number of feeder roots and root stunting, but root knot nematodes cause unique symptoms on roots and pods. Nematodes cause galls (knots) to form on both roots and pods of the peanut, and these galls are highly diagnostic for root-knot nematode presence compared to other nematodes affecting peanut. The presence of galls on roots, pegs and pods appears as single or multiple wart-like growths that may or may not be discolored. As root knot nematode infection progresses, and generally later in the season, secondary root and pod rots cause further damage and eventual death of the plants.Many soil-borne fungi, especially Sclerotium rolfsii (which causes southern stem rot) and Sclerotinia minor (which causes Sclerotinia blight), will infect the weakened peanut plants and cause more plant death. Root knot nematode infection of the peg weakens the peg so that it breaks during harvest, contributing to additional yield losses because the detached pods are then left in the soil. Infection of the pods leads to a decline in yield quality.The damage threshold, or the initial nematode population density at which peanut yields begin to decline, has been reported to be in the range of 1 to 10 eggs and second stage juveniles per 500 cm3 soil for M. arenaria on susceptible peanut cultivars.	 pecan Meloidogyne arenaria

Plants affected by M. incognita present above ground symptoms of water- and nutrient-stress, yellowing, wilting, and stunting. Below ground galling on roots, bulbs, tubers is the typical symptom. Plant death may occur in high infestation level.	 pecan Meloidogyne incognita

Because there are so many different hosts for this pathogen, the symptoms are very variable. Common symptoms include abnormal leaf color, abnormal leaf form, wilting leaves, galls, swollen roots, reduced root system, dwarfing and senescence (Cabi 2018). This pathogen does the most damage when present in light soils with hot weather conditions (Alford 2012).	 pecan Meloidogyne javanica

It has a wide host range, infecting many woody plants, and it is known to infect all species of the genus Prunus, which includes peach, almond, apricot, cherry, and plum. It also infects various other fruit trees, and grapes, in particular. There have been studies that have shown large concentrations of ring nematodes in peppermint, as well.Symptoms can include, but are not limited to: root-pruning, decreased nutrient uptake, vascular damage, possible death of shoots and limbs, and stunted plant growth. With the reduced nutrient uptake, some cases have shown that the change in ratio if carbon:nitrogen can make plants infected by ring nematodes more susceptible to bacterial canker cause by Pseudomonas syringae, (Lownsberry, et al. 1977).	 pecan Mesocriconema xenoplax

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 pecan Phymatotrichopsis omnivora

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 pecan Phymatotrichum omnivorum

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 pecan Physalospora fusca

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 pecan Physalospora rhodina

Phytophthora cactorum has an extremely wide host range, and can infect over 200 species or 160 genera of trees, ornamentals, and fruit crops. In general, P. cactorum is capable of infecting both young and old plants, and causes root rots and crown rots of the many genera it infects. Although the symptoms this pathogen produces varies between the types of organisms it infects, in general disease occurs during periods that are both wet and warm. Furthermore, most infections are caused by zoospores entering the plant through wounds.: 34 On older trees, P. cactorum causes the formation of sap exuding dark colored cankers on the trunks of trees, as well as leaf size and number reduction, chlorosis, and dieback of branches. The diagnosis of a P. cactorum infection of trees, is based on the identification of symptoms, in particular the oozing cankers, and confirmation of symptoms in a diagnosis lab or utilization of a field ELISA detection kit. P. cactorum can be a major problem in apple orchards, as it can cause crown, collar, and root rots in apple trees. When infecting apple trees, the organism can attack through wounds either above or below the soil line, impairing phloem and root function, and causing stunting, foliar disorders, and death after several years. Furthermore, because the pathogen causes damage to the phloem of the tree, one diagnostic method is to check for necrotic phloem tissue at the base of the tree which will be orange to red-brown in the early stages and dark brown in the later stages of infection.A good example of P. cactorum causing foliar disease is on ginseng. Foliar disease of ginseng usually occurs during May and early June, causing the leaves to become transparent and papery. Ginseng foliar infection occurs through the rain splash dispersal of spores from the soil onto above ground wounds. Once infected, P. cactorum works its way down to the roots, rotting them and killing the plant.P. cactorum is also one of the causal agents of black rot on orchids. When infecting orchids, this organism first produces small black lesions on the pseudobulbs of the orchid, which then enlarge and may engulf the entire pseudobulb, leaf, or move through the rhizomes to other portions of the plant prior to killing it. Diagnosis of orchid black rot by P. cactorum is through the identification of lemon-shaped zoosporangia with either a papilla or a short pedicel, the presence of oospores, or molecular identification. Since there are multiple species of Phytophthora that are capable of causing disease on orchids, classification only to the genus level is required for proper prescription of disease management techniques.Crown rot or root rot of strawberries is a common example of diseases of fruit crops caused by P. cactorum. On strawberries, P. cactorum infects the roots and the base of the plant causing stunting and reduced leaf size, with possible complete plant collapse later in the season. Similarly to apple trees, crown rots of strawberries caused by P. cactorum can be partially diagnosed by cutting the crown of the plant and observing brown vascular tissues, and root rots by brown or black stunted roots.Leather rot of strawberry is an additional disease affecting strawberry plants, with P. cactorum being the causal agent. Symptoms of this disease include brown patches or green patches with a brown border in immature fruit, with infected mature fruit displaying a purple to brown color, and becoming hard, leathery, or even mummified. Signs include visible mycelium inside of hollow infected berries, as well as mycelium on the surface of berries.  Infected fruit often has an unpleasant taste and odor, which is diagnostic. 	 pecan Phytophthora cactorum

Phytoplasmas can infect and cause various symptoms in more than 700 plant species. One characteristic symptom is abnormal floral organ development including phyllody (i.e., the production of leaf-like structures in place of flowers) and virescence (i.e., the development of green flowers attributable to a loss of pigment by petal cells). Phytoplasma-harboring flowering plants may nevertheless be sterile. The expression of genes involved in maintaining the apical meristem or in the development of floral organs is altered in the morphologically affected floral organs of phytoplasma-infected plants.A phytoplasma infection often triggers leaf yellowing, probably due to the presence of phytoplasma cells in phloem, which can affect phloem function and carbohydrate transport, inhibit chlorophyll biosynthesis, and trigger chlorophyll breakdown. These symptoms may be attributable to stress caused by the infection rather than a specific pathogenetic process.Many phytoplasma-infected plants develop a bushy or "witches' broom" appearance due to changes in their normal growth patterns. Most plants exhibit apical dominance but infection can trigger the proliferation of axillary (side) shoots and a reduction in internode size. Such symptoms are actually useful in the commercial production of poinsettias. Infection triggers more axillary shoot production; the poinsettia plants thus produce more than a single flower.	 pecan Phytoplasma

In susceptible crops, any parts below the ground are liable to infection. The mycelium of the fungus forms a matted, felt-like purple covering which grows over the surface of the root. Soil particles adhere to this and small, dark-coloured sclerotia grow among the hyphae. A dry rot occurs and secondary rots may move in. Mycelial threads, often merging into strands, grow through the soil and infect nearby plants. A pink or brown mat of mycelial threads may grow above the soil surface. In affected plants, the aerial parts may wilt and have discoloured, stunted foliage.	 pecan Rhizoctonia crocorum

Significant variation in symptoms is seen between diseases, though some symptoms are expressed across species. On a macroscopic scale, plants infected with a X. fastidiosa-related disease exhibit symptoms of water, zinc, and iron deficiencies, manifesting as leaf scorching and stunting in leaves turning them yellowish-brown, gummy substance around leaves, fruit reduction in size and quality, and overall plant height.  As the bacterium progressively colonizes xylem tissues, affected plants often block off their xylem tissue, which can limit the spread of this pathogen; blocking can occur in the form of polysaccharide-rich gels, tyloses, or both.  These plant defenses do not seem to hinder the movement of X. fastidiosa. Occlusion of vascular tissue, while a normal plant response to infection, makes symptoms significantly worse; as the bacterium itself also reduces vascular function, a 90% reduction of vascular hydraulic function was seen in susceptible Vitis vinifera.  This bacterium rarely completely blocks vascular tissue. There usually is a slight amount of vascular function that keeps the plant alive, but makes its fruit or branches die, making the specific plant economically nonproductive. This can cause a massive drop on supply of quality fruit. Smaller colonies usually occur throughout a high proportion of xylem vessels of a symptomatic plant.X. fastidiosa is a Gram-negative, xylem-limited illness that is spread by insects. It can damage a variety of broadleaved tree species that are commonly grown in the United States. X. Fastidiosa can be found in about 600 different plant species.Withering and desiccation of branchesLeaf chlorosisDwarfing or lack of growth of the plantDrooping appearance and shorter internodesShriveled fruits on infected plantsPremature fruit abscissiongum-like substance on leavehardening and size reduction of fruit	 pecan Xylella fastidiosa

Visible deficiency symptoms include:Chlorosis - yellowing of leaves; often interveinal; in some species, young leaves are the most affected, but in others both old and new leaves are chlorotic;Necrotic spots - death of leaf tissue on areas of chlorosis;Bronzing of leaves - chlorotic areas may turn bronze coloured;Rosetting of leaves - zinc-deficient dicotyledons often have shortened internodes, so leaves are clustered on the stem;Stunting of plants - small plants may occur as a result of reduced growth or because of reduced internode elongation;Dwarf leaves ('little leaf') - small leaves that often show chlorosis, necrotic spots or bronzing;Malformed leaves - leaves are often narrower or have wavy margins.	 pecan Zinc deficiency (plant disorder)

There are a variety of hosts including but not limited to; banana, beans, cabbage, carrot, cassava, coffee, corn, cotton, onion, other crucifers, pepper, potato, sweet potato and tomato. Pandanus conoideus and karuka (Pandanus julianettii) get bacterial soft rot and necrosis on the leaves from Pectobacterium carotovorum subsp. carotovorum. For each host there are different symptoms displayed. Most symptoms are along the lines of watery and soft decay of the tissue. Cabbage and crucifers' symptoms start where the tissue makes contact with the soil. Often there is a change in color and in the case of a carrot, the whole taproot can be decayed leaving just the epidermis. Sweet potatoes show clear lesions that grow rapidly leaving a recognizable watery and soft, oozy tissue where only the peel remains intact.Potatoes experience a cream to tan colored tuber that becomes very soft and watery. A characteristic black border separates the diseased area and the healthy tissue. Only when the secondary organism invades the infected tissue does that decay become slimy with a foul odor. Like the carrot, the whole tuber can be consumed leaving just the epidermis in the soil. The foliage becomes weak and chlorotic with upward turned leaves and lesions on the stem. The stem also rots and becomes mushy with its colorless or brown lesions.	 pepper Bacterial soft rot

Plants that are infected will tend to display early symptoms within 5 days. The BCTV causes many symptoms including:Vein swelling (the earliest and most common symptom)Leaf curlingYellowing of leaves with purple veinsNecrosis and hyperplasia of the phloemFruit deformationPremature fruit ripeningReduced fruit quality and yieldStuntingDeath of young seedlings	 pepper Beet curly top virus

When the infection occurs in an early stage of the tomato plant there may be wilting on leaves because Clavibacter michiganensis subsp. michiganensis enter the plant by wounds, including root wounds, and if the bacterium gets to the xylem then a systemic infection is likely that may plug the xylem vessels. The wilting may only show on one side of the leaf and may recover during cooler periods. The entire system of xylem within the plant allows the bacteria to form titers of up to 109 bacteria per gram of plant tissue. Wilting may eventually spread to all leaves and these leaves, along with their petioles, may also show distorted, curled growth. One way to diagnose a severe vascular infection is to pinch the stem. If the epidermis and outer layer of the cortex separate from the inner stem then there is severe vascular infection. These exposed parts will have a soapy feel. Canker lesions, though rare, may develop on the stem. These cankers are necrotic regions where the epidermis is gone. As the bacteria continues its colonization, the canker will deepen and expand. In terms of fruit development, tomatoes may fail to develop altogether or may look marbled because they are ripening unevenly.If infection occurs at a late stage of plant development, plants are able to survive and generate fruits. However, the plant may appear stressed rather than wilted and may develop white interveinal areas that will develop into brown necrotic tissue. Often the seeds are infected as well.Superficial infections increase the risk of epidemics. They occur when the bacteria multiply on the epidermis of the host, enter through stomata, or enter through a very shallow wound that does not allow the pathogen to reach the xylem tissue. The host may look like it was rubbed with cornmeal or coarse flour but it is actually a series of blisters that me be raised or sunken and appear white to pale orange. The most common leaf symptom is a dark brown spot surrounded by a sort of orange-like area on the edge of the leaf. Fruits may develop "bird's eye" spotting, which are pale green to white raised pustules that have a brown center and chlorotic halo. Pictures of these symptoms are available at the cited reference.However, latent infections are common.The Clavibacter michiganensis subsp. michiganensis wild type strain NCPPB382 carries two plasmids associated with virulence: pCM1 and pCM2. The avirulent strain, CMM100, does not contain these plasmids. Strains that carried one of the two plasmids were found to be virulent but wilting symptoms were delayed. The virulent and avirulent strains produced the same amount of exopolysaccharides, suggesting that EPS does not play a significant role in pathogenicity.	 pepper Clavibacter michiganensis

Colletotrichum capsici has a broad host range but prefers peppers, yams and eggplants. On chili peppers, Capsicum annuum L., C. capsici infect the stem, fruit, and leaves of the plant, causing anthracnose, die-back and ripe fruit rot. C. capsici infection tends to infect ripe red fruit and lead to the development of brown necrotic lesions containing concentric acervuli that will eventually appear black from the setae and sclerotia (Srinivasan, Vijayalakshmi Kothandaraman, Vaikuntavasan, & Rethinasamy, 2014). Additionally, the fruit content of capsaicin and oleoresin is reduced, which results in a decrease of its medicinal potency (Madhavan, Paranidharan, & Velazhahan, 2016).	 pepper Colletotrichum capsici

Colletotrichum coccodes can infect potato, onion, tomato and has a large host range. The disease also infects hosts from the Cucurbitaceae, Fabaceae and Solanaceae families).Colletotrichum coccodes can cause lesions, twisted leaves, and a bleached color on onion.On tomato, can see that there are sunken in dark spots. As the disease continues to develop can begin to see spots that are rotting. The pathogen can infect both green and ripe fruit; spots are not evident on green right away, but over time they develop. (Dillard, 1987).  Symptoms are most common on the fruit, but they may also appear on the stem, leaves, and roots.In potato, C. coccodes is characterized by silvery lesions on the tuber surface which result in a deterioration in skin quality. In addition to causing tuber blemish symptoms, C. coccodes also causes symptoms on stems and foliage, which result in crop losses, and is implicated as a factor in the potato early dying disease complex. In the past the pathogen was not regarded as an issue, but it has become more prevalent.	 pepper Colletotrichum coccodes

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 pepper Colletotrichum gloeosporioides

This virus was first characterized in cucumbers (Cucumis sativus) showing mosaic symptoms in 1934, hence the name Cucumber mosaic. Since then, it has been found to infect a great variety of other plants. These include other vegetables such as squash, melons, peppers, eggplants, tomatoes, beans, carrots, celery, lettuce, spinach, beets, many ornamentals and bedding plants, such as Narcissus, and various weeds. Its presence has been confirmed on every continent of the world, including Antarctica.Symptoms seen with this virus include leaf mosaic or mottling (Fig. 1), yellowing, ringspots, stunting, and leaf, flower and fruit distortion. CMV also induces a type of symptom on leaves known as the "shoestring" effect on many host species. This effect causes young leaves to appear narrow and the entire plant to be stunted.Specifically, CMV can cause cucumbers to turn pale and bumpy. The leaves of these plants turn mosaic and their rugosity is often changed, making leaves wrinkled and misshapen. Growth of these plants is usually also stunted and produces few flowers. Often, cucumber fruits are oddly shaped, appear gray, and tested bitter. These appearances lead to them being referred to as "white pickles".Tomato plants are usually stunted and have poorly shaped leaves, or "fernleaf", when infected by CMV. Also certain strains of CMV can cause partial or total crop loss. CMV in peppers causes slightly different symptoms than the previously mentioned. Pepper plants often have severe foliar damage, shown as mosaic and necrotic rings. Often the peppers themselves are misshapen and contain chlorotic rings and spots. In celery, CMV causes streaking and spotting and can be often confused with symptoms of the celery mosaic virus. Symptoms of CMV in lettuce, such as chlorosis, plant stunting and often do not properly head, can be very similar to those of lettuce mosaic virus.CMV has also been identified in a lesser extent to a number of plant species. It is found to be a minor virus infecting Allium crops. The virus infection causes extensive malformation on garlic plants, and mild malformation to severe necrotic streaks on onion leaves. The severe damages on garlic plants and difficulty of aphids transmission of garlic isolate, were possible causal for the rare CMV on garlic. Genetically, the two onion isolates from Turkey (CMV-14.3Po and CMV-15.5Po) are highly similar to others isolated from various plant species in Mediterranean, European, and East Asian countries. CMV was also detected on American beautyberry, an important wildlife and pollinator food source plant native to North America.In plant tissue this virus makes characteristic viral inclusion bodies which can be diagnostic. They are hexagonal in shape (Fig. 2) and stain both in a protein stain and a nucleic acid stain. The inclusions can also be rhomboidal, may appear hollow (Fig. 2) and can form larger aggregates. The inclusions are not uniformly distributed and can be found in epidermal (Fig. 2), mesophyll, and stomatal cells. These inclusions are made up of virus particles.			 pepper Cucumber mosaic virus

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 pepper Fusarium solani

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 pepper Glomerella cingulata

L. taurica is the pathogen responsible for powdery mildew on onions, but it can also infect peppers, tomatoes, eggplant, cotton, and garlic. While L. taurica can infect many different plants it is actually very host specific. Different races of L. taurica can only infect certain crops, and even specific cultivars within the same crop. An accurate way to describe its host specificity is that this disease is, “a composite species consisting of many host-specific races." Symptoms of Onion Powdery Mildew (OPM) are usually seen as circular or oblong lesions that are 5 to 20 mm and have a chlorotic or necrotic appearance. The lesions appear on older leaves before the bulb of the onion begins to form, but also can occur on the younger leaves towards the end of the season. As the disease progresses signs of OPM can also be seen. On the lesions white mycelium can be found with conidiophores bearing either lanceolate or rounded condia.	 pepper Leveillula taurica

One of the most harmful seed and soil borne pathogens, Macrophomina phaseolina is a fungus that infects nearly 500 plant species in more than 100 families. The hosts include: peanut, cabbage, pepper, chickpea, soybean, sunflower, sweet potato, alfalfa, sesame, potato, sorghum, wheat, and corn, among others. The identification of isolates of M. phaseolina is usually based on morphology and efforts to divide the pathogen into subspecies, but because there are wide intraspecific variations in the phenotype of the isolates, these criteria are often not reliable. The failure to correctly detect and identify M. phaseolina using conventional culture-based morphological techniques has led scientists to develop nucleic acid-based molecular approaches, such as highly sensitive and specific polymerase chain reaction-based methods. Researchers have also recently created species-specific oligonucleotide primers and digoxigenin-labeled probes in hopes of better identifying and detecting M. phaseolina.The pathogen M. phaseolina affects the fibrovascular system of the roots and basal internodes of its host, impeding the transport of water and nutrients to the upper parts of the plant. As a result, progressive wilting, premature dying, loss of vigor, and reduced yield are characteristic symptoms of M. phaseolina infection. The fungus also causes many diseases like damping off, seedling blight, collar rot, stem rot, charcoal rot, basal stem rot, and root rot. Although brown lesions may form on the hypocotyls or emerging seedlings, many symptoms occur during or after flowering, including grey discoloration of the stem and taproots, shredding of plant tissue in the stem and top of the taproot, and hollowing of the stem. Small black dots may form beneath the epidermis of the lower stem and in the taproot, giving the stems and roots a charcoal-sprinkled appearance. When the epidermis is removed, small and black microsclerotia (a sign of the disease) may be so numerous that they give a greyish-black tint to the plant tissue. In addition, reddish-brown discoloration and black streaks can form in the pith and vascular tissues of the root and stem.	 pepper Macrophomina phaseolina

These nematodes cause symptoms both on leaves and roots. Foliar symptoms of root-knot disease may be expressed at any time during the growing season. These symptoms of nematode damage on peanut plants range from stunting, yellowing, wilting and even plant death.  Ferris (1999–2012), also reported that nematodes cause yellowing; mid-day wilting; symptoms of water and nutrient stress; and sometimes death, especially if the nematode is interacting with other organisms.  They can appear in a peanut crop beginning about 100 days after planting or after periods of dry hot weather.  Areas of root-knot nematode damaged peanut are usually round to oblong in shape, and rows of infected plants may never overlap as those of healthy plants. It is common for plants to wilt and eventually die in areas where nematode populations are high.Root symptoms are similar to those caused by all nematodes including a reduction in number of feeder roots and root stunting, but root knot nematodes cause unique symptoms on roots and pods. Nematodes cause galls (knots) to form on both roots and pods of the peanut, and these galls are highly diagnostic for root-knot nematode presence compared to other nematodes affecting peanut. The presence of galls on roots, pegs and pods appears as single or multiple wart-like growths that may or may not be discolored. As root knot nematode infection progresses, and generally later in the season, secondary root and pod rots cause further damage and eventual death of the plants.Many soil-borne fungi, especially Sclerotium rolfsii (which causes southern stem rot) and Sclerotinia minor (which causes Sclerotinia blight), will infect the weakened peanut plants and cause more plant death. Root knot nematode infection of the peg weakens the peg so that it breaks during harvest, contributing to additional yield losses because the detached pods are then left in the soil. Infection of the pods leads to a decline in yield quality.The damage threshold, or the initial nematode population density at which peanut yields begin to decline, has been reported to be in the range of 1 to 10 eggs and second stage juveniles per 500 cm3 soil for M. arenaria on susceptible peanut cultivars.	 pepper Meloidogyne arenaria

Meloidogyne hapla (Northern root-knot nematode) has a wide host range. It is polyphagous and affects over 550 crops and weeds. It feeds on many agricultural and horticultural plants (vegetables, fruits, ornamentals), but few grasses or cereals. A list of known hosts can be found at the bottom of this page.Symptoms can be seen in the roots, leaves, and the overall growth of the infected plant. In roots, there may be stunting, wilting, and the formation of abnormal growths called galls. Galls are usually small and spherical and are situated near many small roots. They are formed when the nematode enters the root and releases chemicals to enlarge root cells, on which they feed. The roots become defective and therefore cannot transport water and nutrients properly. The end result is stunted, wilted, and yellowing plants (characteristic of nutrient deficiency) and a decreased yield. Severity of the symptoms depends on nematode population density and host plant species and cultivar. As the number of nematodes increase in the area, the number and size of root galls increase as well. Each crop responds to Meloidogyne hapla differently. Carrots typically undergo severe forking with galling of the roots, lettuce have beadlike galls, and grasses and onions have small and barely noticeable galls and symptoms. In potato tubers (special stems), brown spots will appear on areas of the tubers where the females have laid their eggs.If a field has a patchy distribution of symptoms, it usually indicates the presence of nematodes. Most nematodes are not usually distributed uniformly in the soil. To correctly identify Meloidogyne hapla, the infected plant should be sent to a lab for a proper diagnosis. One common method is perineal pattern analysis where the perineum of the female nematode (area between the anus and the vulva) is examined for a specific pattern in ridges and annulations. Another common method is analyzing isozyme (different variations of the same enzyme produced by different genes) electrophoretic profiles using esterase and malate dehydrogenase.	 pepper Meloidogyne hapla

Plants affected by M. incognita present above ground symptoms of water- and nutrient-stress, yellowing, wilting, and stunting. Below ground galling on roots, bulbs, tubers is the typical symptom. Plant death may occur in high infestation level.	 pepper Meloidogyne incognita

Because there are so many different hosts for this pathogen, the symptoms are very variable. Common symptoms include abnormal leaf color, abnormal leaf form, wilting leaves, galls, swollen roots, reduced root system, dwarfing and senescence (Cabi 2018). This pathogen does the most damage when present in light soils with hot weather conditions (Alford 2012).	 pepper Meloidogyne javanica

L. taurica is the pathogen responsible for powdery mildew on onions, but it can also infect peppers, tomatoes, eggplant, cotton, and garlic. While L. taurica can infect many different plants it is actually very host specific. Different races of L. taurica can only infect certain crops, and even specific cultivars within the same crop. An accurate way to describe its host specificity is that this disease is, “a composite species consisting of many host-specific races." Symptoms of Onion Powdery Mildew (OPM) are usually seen as circular or oblong lesions that are 5 to 20 mm and have a chlorotic or necrotic appearance. The lesions appear on older leaves before the bulb of the onion begins to form, but also can occur on the younger leaves towards the end of the season. As the disease progresses signs of OPM can also be seen. On the lesions white mycelium can be found with conidiophores bearing either lanceolate or rounded condia.	 pepper Oidiopsis sicula

L. taurica is the pathogen responsible for powdery mildew on onions, but it can also infect peppers, tomatoes, eggplant, cotton, and garlic. While L. taurica can infect many different plants it is actually very host specific. Different races of L. taurica can only infect certain crops, and even specific cultivars within the same crop. An accurate way to describe its host specificity is that this disease is, “a composite species consisting of many host-specific races." Symptoms of Onion Powdery Mildew (OPM) are usually seen as circular or oblong lesions that are 5 to 20 mm and have a chlorotic or necrotic appearance. The lesions appear on older leaves before the bulb of the onion begins to form, but also can occur on the younger leaves towards the end of the season. As the disease progresses signs of OPM can also be seen. On the lesions white mycelium can be found with conidiophores bearing either lanceolate or rounded condia.	 pepper Oidiopsis taurica

Pepper mild mottle virus is the major viral pathogen of peppers (Capsicum spp.). The host range of PMMoV include most cultivars and species of pepper (Capsicum spp.). This virus strain does not infect tomato, eggplant, or tobacco; however, other members of the genus Tobamovirus can infect these other hosts. PMMoV is one of at least 4 different species of Tobamovirus that infect peppers. The others include Tobacco mosaic virus (TMV), Tomato mosaic virus (ToMV) and Tobacco mild green mosaic virus (TMGMV).The pathogen is known to occur throughout the world and it frequently results in significant crop losses or reductions in both field and greenhouse plantings. The virus has been identified in places like Australia, Japan, China, Taiwan, Europe, and North Africa. Since 1997, PMMoV has been the cause of many major outbreaks in the southeastern states namely Georgia and Florida.Symptoms caused by this pathogen vary based on the specific host cultivar; however, a majority of the symptoms are very similar between the different hosts. Symptoms usually include various degrees of mottling, chlorosis, curling, dwarfing, and distortion of the fruit, leaves, and even whole plants. The symptoms on fruit include: a reduction in size, mottling and color changes, and an obvious distorted and lumpy appearance. Also, many times brown necrotic streaks or splotches can be seen on the leaves and fruit. The symptoms can easily be seen on new growth, and they are far more pronounced if the plant was infected when it was young rather than when it was older.The disease is harmful because of the mild foliar symptoms (chlorosis, necrosis, etc.) and due to this many times the pathogen goes unnoticed until the more evident symptoms on the fruit appear. This is why there are higher yield losses because symptoms only become evident during the fruiting stage right before the crops are supposed to harvested.	 pepper Pepper mild mottle virus

Symptoms of PepMoV on pepper include dark green vein banding, mottle/mosaic, puckered or crinkled leaves, and misshapen fruit.  Plants infected early in the growing season can be stunted and the virus can decrease yield significantly. (See pictures of symptoms)Surveys have shown that PepMoV can often occur in mixed infections with TEV and/or PVY so a technique such as ELISA must be used to differentiate these three virus in pepper. Antiserum is available for all three potyviruses, as are primers for PCR tests and sequencing.PepMoV makes two types of inclusions in infected cells, the typical cylindrical inclusions (CI) and an amorphous inclusion (AI).  Thus leaf strips stained with the protein stain, OG, and the nucleic acid stain, AA, can be used to identify this virus in pepper. The CI only stains in OG while the AI stains in both stains.Symptoms and Inclusions of PepMoV in Capsicum annuum	 pepper Pepper mottle virus

Tobacco plants with an upright position of small patches of the seed bed are typically early signs of blue mold. These leaves are usually 2–4 centimetres (0.79–1.57 in) in diameter, and normally spotted with yellow, gray, or a bluish mold in the lower surface.  Younger plants that are up to four weeks old and are affected by the disease are easily killed by the oomycete. Older plants become deformed and dark, indicating that parts of the plant are dead. In more severe cases the stem and root become infected and turn to a brownish color. The observation of downy mold in the lower surface of the leaf is the most reliable symptom of blue mold. Downy mold carries thousands of small reproductive units called conidia If conidia forms at different spots in the seedbed an outbreak is more than likely to occur. The symptoms usually take place before it's obvious. The symptoms evolve rapidly and are typically noticeable over night.The oomycete frequently takes place when the vein of the leaves reaches vascular tissue of the stem, causing weakness and lodging. This infection is called "systemic infection". The infection causes a stunt in growth and the leaves become narrow and short. The vascular system of the plants usually turns brown in color and the weakened stalk usually causing the stalk to fall over.The mould is highly weather sensitive. During the time when the weather is cool, wet, or overcast the disease can evolve in a greenhouse or field. The disease spreads rapidly because of the pathogen. The rate of continental spread is based on the potential for high levels of inoculum and effective wind spores. When the weather is clear, dry, and hot the disease usually stops spreading and more than likely stops all together.	 pepper Peronospora tabacina

PVY belongs to the genus Potyvirus, the largest genus of plant viruses and possibly the most destructive one in potato crops. The genus includes more than 200 species that bring about significant losses in the agricultural arena. PVY infects many economically important plant species. These include potato (Solanum tuberosum), tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum), tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) and pepper (Capsicum spp.). The level of damage to crop is determined by the strain of PVY infecting the plants, the viral load, the time at which infection occurs as well as the tolerance the host possesses toward the virus. Resistance to PVY infection by hosts is low in many cases. Infection of a potato field with PVY may ultimately result in 10-100% loss in yield.It has been shown that the PVY has different isolates according to the symptoms they induce in various potato plant species. Extensive biological, serological and molecular variability of PVY isolates makes the classification of isolates as particular strains particularly difficult. Occurrence of a variety of symptoms and the emergence of the necrotic PVYNTN has led to a search for more reliable classification tools than simple serological identification. Traditionally three chief strains of PVY are recognized: PVYC, PVYN and PVYO. PVYC, originally known as Potato Virus C, was the first to be recognized and was identified in the 1930s. PVYC induces hypersensitive responses in a wide range of potato cultivars. These reactions include the formation of mild mosaic patterns or stipple streak. Unlike the other strains of PVY, some PVYC strains are non-aphid transmissible. Previous studies by Visser et al. did not identify any of the local isolates as being PVYC but it has been reported to occur to in South Africa. A second strain of PVY is PVYN. This strain was described in tobacco plants growing close to potato plants. PVYN results in leaf necrosis and mild or even no damage to the tubers. The ordinary strain of PVY is denoted as PVYO. Infection of a potato plant with the PVYO strain results in mild tuber damage and does not cause leaf necrosis. Both PVYN and PVYO are aphid transmissible and occur in South Africa. In Europe these two strains have been shown to have recombined to form PVYNTN. The PVYNTN has been accredited with the ability to induce potato tuber necrotic ringspot disease (PTNRD). Tubers damaged by PTNRD become unmarketable and infection by PVYNTN thus results in a larger economic impact than infection by the other strains.	 pepper Potato virus Y

Root lesion nematode has a wide host range, including hosts like apple, cherry, conifers, roses, tomato, potato, corn, onion and sugarbeets, and ornamentals such as Narcissus. More than 164 hosts for P. penetrans have been recorded.  In the host range there are some hosts that are susceptible, such as wheat, oat, field pea, faba bean, and chickpea, and some that are moderately susceptible, such as barley and canola.Some general symptoms that are produced on infected plants include poor growth, fruit spot, and chlorotic foliage.  These secondary symptoms are often due to plant root stress.  These make it rather difficult to diagnose nematode diseases in general.  The roots when infected produce necrotic lesions, which are darkened areas of dead tissue, on the surface and throughout the cortex of the infected roots.  These lesions turn the root to reddish-brown to black and are initially spotty.  As the nematode continues to feed, the lesions can coalesce to become large necrotic areas of tissue that may eventually girdle the root. The population size of the nematode affects the degree of symptoms.  Low to moderate populations may cause no visible above ground symptoms, while high populations can lead to stunting, nutrient and water deficiencies, and eventual die-back of the plant.  On potato, infection of root lesion nematode can cause a secondary invasion by Verticillium dahliae leading to Potato Early Dying.  Onions are another important host of P. penetrans.  Onions are an important vegetable for consumption in the United States and upon infection the nematodes can limit yield and quality of the bulbs.  Populations of more than 0.01 nematode per cubic centimeter of soil resulted in injury to onions.  There is a negative relationship between the increasing inoculum levels on onion root and top fresh weight at harvest.	 pepper Pratylenchus penetrans

Radopholus similis parasites can be found in tropical climates, and therefore infect a lot of plants native to tropical areas. Common hosts that are economically important include: banana, coconut, coffee, ginger, sugarcane, ornamentals, and tea. Although R. similis has not been found to infect citrus plants, it is closely related to another variety of burrowing nematodes, Radopholus citrophilus, that is a prominent pathogen to citrus plants. As with a plethora of root diseases, the main symptoms of an infection from burrowing nematodes are stunted growth, rotting roots, and necrotic roots. They are migratory endoparasites, and therefore can cause many localized necrotic patches throughout an infected root system. R. similis signs are generally only seen in the roots, but secondary symptoms such as wilting, weakened structure, and stunting can be caused by the root damage these parasites inflict. In fact, infection via these parasites is referred to as “banana toppling disease” in bananas because the plants often topple due to severe root damage by these nematodes. Prominent symptoms can also vary by host. Black pepper plants often undergo yellowing due to lack of nutrient uptake, ginger plants often become stunted and develop lesions, and tea plants also exhibit stunting and leaf loss.	 pepper Radopholus similis

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 pepper Rhizoctonia solani

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 pepper Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

Symptoms seen on plants infected with this virus can vary depending on the plant. However typical symptoms include vein clearing, mottling, and necrotic lines or etching.  Symptoms can occur on leaves and fruit and the plants can become stunted.Like other potyviruses, TEV makes viral inclusions that can be seen in the light microscope if properly stained.  This particular potyvirus makes two kinds of inclusions that can be diagnostic in a known host.  One of the inclusions is the cylindrical inclusions found in the cytoplasm of infected cells and the second inclusion is found in the nucleus. Neither inclusion type stains in the nucleic acid stain (AzureA). (Inclusions of tobacco etch virus in various hosts.)	 pepper Tobacco etch virus

Like other plant pathogenic viruses, TMV has a very wide host range and has different effects depending on the host being infected. Tobacco mosaic virus has been known to cause a production loss for flue cured tobacco of up to two percent in North Carolina. It is known to infect members of nine plant families, and at least 125 individual species, including tobacco, tomato, pepper (all members of the useful Solanaceae), cucumbers, a number of ornamental flowers, and beans including Phaseolus vulgaris and Vigna unguiculata. There are many different strains. The first symptom of this virus disease is a light green coloration between the veins of young leaves. This is followed quickly by the development of a "mosaic" or mottled pattern of light and dark green areas in the leaves. Rugosity may also be seen where the infected plant leaves display small localized random wrinkles. These symptoms develop quickly and are more pronounced on younger leaves. Its infection does not result in plant death, but if infection occurs early in the season, plants are stunted. Lower leaves are subjected to "mosaic burn"  especially during periods of hot and dry weather. In these cases, large dead areas develop in the leaves. This constitutes one of the most destructive phases of Tobacco mosaic virus infection. Infected leaves may be crinkled, puckered, or elongated. However, if TMV infects crops like grape and apple, it is almost symptomless. TMV is able  to infect and complete its replication cycle in a plant pathogenic fungus,TMV is able to enter and replicate in cells of C. acutatum, C. clavatum, and C. theobromicola, which may not be an exception, although it has neither been found nor probably searched for in nature.	 pepper Tobacco mosaic virus

The foliage of affected tomato plants shows mottling, with alternating yellowish and darker green areas, the latter often appearing thicker and raised giving a blister-like appearance. The leaves tend to be fern-like in appearance with pointed tips and younger leaves may be twisted. The fruit may be distorted, yellow blotches and necrotic spots may occur on both ripe and green fruit and there may be internal browning of the fruit wall. In young plants, the infection reduces the set of fruit and may cause distortions and blemishes. The entire plant may be dwarfed and the flowers discoloured. Environmental conditions influence the symptoms. These include temperature, day length and light intensity as well as the variety, the age of the plant at infection and the virulence of the strain of ToMV.	 pepper Tomato mosaic virus

TSWV infects a variety of hosts, contributing to its global economic impact on crops. There are over a thousand different hosts for TSWV. The host range of TSWV includes agronomically important crops like tomatoes and tobacco. The symptoms of TSWV vary from host to host. There is also variability of symptoms within a single type of host due to the age of the plant, nutrition and the environment (especially temperature). Common symptoms include stunting, ringspots on fruit and necrosis of leaves. There are many different strains of TSWV, and differences in symptoms may also be attributed to the differences in the number of strains present.	 pepper Tomato spotted wilt virus

There are many strains of Verticillium dahliae which are categorized into vegetative compatibility groups (VCG). These groups comprise strains that are able to exchange genetic material via anastomosis. Each VCG affects a few or only one host and the virulence of the pathogen varies by host. While individual V. dahliae strains are relatively host specific, as a species it has a wide range.Verticillium dahliae has a very wide host range, affecting over 300 plant species. Some susceptible crops include Brussels sprouts, cabbage, eggplant, cucumbers, mint, pepper, potatoes, pumpkin, spinach, tomato, watermelon, honeydew, and cantaloupe. Of these, tomato, potato, and eggplant have resistant or tolerant varieties.Symptoms of this disease are seen throughout the plant. Leaves may have abnormal coloration, necrotic areas, wilt, and/or fall off the plant. The stem may have discolored vascular tissue, exhibit rosetting (shortened internodes of the plant caused by reduced growth, resulting in a rosette-like appearance), and/or be stunted. Early senescence and dieback may also occur.Microsclerotia can be seen under a lens as small black structures in the vasculature of living and dead plants. This feature can be used to distinguish V. dahliae from V. albo-atrum, the other verticillium wilt pathogen.	 pepper Verticillium dahliae

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 pigeonpea Alternaria alternata

Armillaria mellea typically infects hardwood trees and conifers but sometimes will infect non-woody monocots and a few herbaceous plants. There are few signs, and the ones that do exist are often hard to find. The most prominent sign is honey-colored mushrooms at the base of the infected plant. Additional signs include white, fan-shaped mycelia and black rhizomorphs with diameters between 1/32nd of an inch and 1/8th of an inch. These usually are not as noticeable because they occur beneath the bark and in the soil, respectively. The symptoms are much more numerous, including slower growth, dieback of branches, yellowing foliage, rotted wood at base and/or roots, external cankers, cracking bark, bleeding stem, leaf wilting, defoliation, and rapid death. Leaf wilting, defoliation, and dieback occur after the destruction of the cambium.	 pigeonpea Armillaria mellea

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 pigeonpea Botryodiplodia theobromae

Colletotrichum coccodes can infect potato, onion, tomato and has a large host range. The disease also infects hosts from the Cucurbitaceae, Fabaceae and Solanaceae families).Colletotrichum coccodes can cause lesions, twisted leaves, and a bleached color on onion.On tomato, can see that there are sunken in dark spots. As the disease continues to develop can begin to see spots that are rotting. The pathogen can infect both green and ripe fruit; spots are not evident on green right away, but over time they develop. (Dillard, 1987).  Symptoms are most common on the fruit, but they may also appear on the stem, leaves, and roots.In potato, C. coccodes is characterized by silvery lesions on the tuber surface which result in a deterioration in skin quality. In addition to causing tuber blemish symptoms, C. coccodes also causes symptoms on stems and foliage, which result in crop losses, and is implicated as a factor in the potato early dying disease complex. In the past the pathogen was not regarded as an issue, but it has become more prevalent.	 pigeonpea Colletotrichum cajani

Colletotrichum capsici has a broad host range but prefers peppers, yams and eggplants. On chili peppers, Capsicum annuum L., C. capsici infect the stem, fruit, and leaves of the plant, causing anthracnose, die-back and ripe fruit rot. C. capsici infection tends to infect ripe red fruit and lead to the development of brown necrotic lesions containing concentric acervuli that will eventually appear black from the setae and sclerotia (Srinivasan, Vijayalakshmi Kothandaraman, Vaikuntavasan, & Rethinasamy, 2014). Additionally, the fruit content of capsaicin and oleoresin is reduced, which results in a decrease of its medicinal potency (Madhavan, Paranidharan, & Velazhahan, 2016).	 pigeonpea Colletotrichum capsici

Symptoms appear as dark red to black lesions on the lower surface of the leaves. They appear as sunken lesions surrounded by a raised brown-black border on the pods, petioles and stems. Very small black fruiting bodies of the fungus are usually visible in older lesions.Other symptoms include shedding of leaves, flower and pod abortion.Infected seeds appear discoloured with brown or grey staining or dark flecks.	 pigeonpea Colletotrichum truncatum

There are various symptoms associated with damping off; these reflect the variety of different pathogenic organisms which can cause the condition. However, all symptoms result in the death of at least some seedlings in any given population.Groups of seedlings may die in roughly circular patches, the seedlings sometimes having stem lesions at ground level. Stems of seedlings may also become thin and tough ("wire-stem") resulting in reduced seedling vigor. Leaf spotting sometimes accompanies other symptoms, as does a grey mold growth on stems and leaves. Roots sometimes rot completely or back to just discolored stumps.	 pigeonpea Damping off

One of the most harmful seed and soil borne pathogens, Macrophomina phaseolina is a fungus that infects nearly 500 plant species in more than 100 families. The hosts include: peanut, cabbage, pepper, chickpea, soybean, sunflower, sweet potato, alfalfa, sesame, potato, sorghum, wheat, and corn, among others. The identification of isolates of M. phaseolina is usually based on morphology and efforts to divide the pathogen into subspecies, but because there are wide intraspecific variations in the phenotype of the isolates, these criteria are often not reliable. The failure to correctly detect and identify M. phaseolina using conventional culture-based morphological techniques has led scientists to develop nucleic acid-based molecular approaches, such as highly sensitive and specific polymerase chain reaction-based methods. Researchers have also recently created species-specific oligonucleotide primers and digoxigenin-labeled probes in hopes of better identifying and detecting M. phaseolina.The pathogen M. phaseolina affects the fibrovascular system of the roots and basal internodes of its host, impeding the transport of water and nutrients to the upper parts of the plant. As a result, progressive wilting, premature dying, loss of vigor, and reduced yield are characteristic symptoms of M. phaseolina infection. The fungus also causes many diseases like damping off, seedling blight, collar rot, stem rot, charcoal rot, basal stem rot, and root rot. Although brown lesions may form on the hypocotyls or emerging seedlings, many symptoms occur during or after flowering, including grey discoloration of the stem and taproots, shredding of plant tissue in the stem and top of the taproot, and hollowing of the stem. Small black dots may form beneath the epidermis of the lower stem and in the taproot, giving the stems and roots a charcoal-sprinkled appearance. When the epidermis is removed, small and black microsclerotia (a sign of the disease) may be so numerous that they give a greyish-black tint to the plant tissue. In addition, reddish-brown discoloration and black streaks can form in the pith and vascular tissues of the root and stem.	 pigeonpea Fusicoccum cajani

Common beans in moderate temperature regions are victims of halo blights. Main hosts are lima beans, red kidney bean, cranberry yellow eye field beans, snap beans, scarlet runner, kudzu vine and common P.vulgaris. Halo blight is affected by environment factors and enter through plant injuries or natural openings. The development of the Halo blight is highly favored by cool temperature (such as 20–23 °C), unlike other common bacterial blights. In warm temperatures (over 24 °C), the production of phaseolotoxin decreases and symptoms become less obvious. Phaseolotoxin is a toxin produced by Halo blight pathogen which causes systemic chlorosis.Halo blight causes small water-soaked spots on leaves. These spot progressively turn dark brown and are surrounded by a wide greenish yellow halo. The necrotic spots remain small unlike that of common blight.Similar to foliage symptoms, halo blights causes water-soaked spots on vegetative pods. It also causes streaks along pod sutures. If lesions becomes severe on the pods, it may penetrate the pod walls or expand into the pod sutures which causes the seed to be wrinkled and discolored (yellow patches on the seed coat).Systemic infections are not common, but occur more favorably in some dry bean varieties. If the disease develops a systemic infection, it will cause curling, yellowing and death of young leaflets.	 pigeonpea Halo blight

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 pigeonpea Lasiodiplodia theobromae

L. taurica is the pathogen responsible for powdery mildew on onions, but it can also infect peppers, tomatoes, eggplant, cotton, and garlic. While L. taurica can infect many different plants it is actually very host specific. Different races of L. taurica can only infect certain crops, and even specific cultivars within the same crop. An accurate way to describe its host specificity is that this disease is, “a composite species consisting of many host-specific races." Symptoms of Onion Powdery Mildew (OPM) are usually seen as circular or oblong lesions that are 5 to 20 mm and have a chlorotic or necrotic appearance. The lesions appear on older leaves before the bulb of the onion begins to form, but also can occur on the younger leaves towards the end of the season. As the disease progresses signs of OPM can also be seen. On the lesions white mycelium can be found with conidiophores bearing either lanceolate or rounded condia.	 pigeonpea Leveillula taurica

One of the most harmful seed and soil borne pathogens, Macrophomina phaseolina is a fungus that infects nearly 500 plant species in more than 100 families. The hosts include: peanut, cabbage, pepper, chickpea, soybean, sunflower, sweet potato, alfalfa, sesame, potato, sorghum, wheat, and corn, among others. The identification of isolates of M. phaseolina is usually based on morphology and efforts to divide the pathogen into subspecies, but because there are wide intraspecific variations in the phenotype of the isolates, these criteria are often not reliable. The failure to correctly detect and identify M. phaseolina using conventional culture-based morphological techniques has led scientists to develop nucleic acid-based molecular approaches, such as highly sensitive and specific polymerase chain reaction-based methods. Researchers have also recently created species-specific oligonucleotide primers and digoxigenin-labeled probes in hopes of better identifying and detecting M. phaseolina.The pathogen M. phaseolina affects the fibrovascular system of the roots and basal internodes of its host, impeding the transport of water and nutrients to the upper parts of the plant. As a result, progressive wilting, premature dying, loss of vigor, and reduced yield are characteristic symptoms of M. phaseolina infection. The fungus also causes many diseases like damping off, seedling blight, collar rot, stem rot, charcoal rot, basal stem rot, and root rot. Although brown lesions may form on the hypocotyls or emerging seedlings, many symptoms occur during or after flowering, including grey discoloration of the stem and taproots, shredding of plant tissue in the stem and top of the taproot, and hollowing of the stem. Small black dots may form beneath the epidermis of the lower stem and in the taproot, giving the stems and roots a charcoal-sprinkled appearance. When the epidermis is removed, small and black microsclerotia (a sign of the disease) may be so numerous that they give a greyish-black tint to the plant tissue. In addition, reddish-brown discoloration and black streaks can form in the pith and vascular tissues of the root and stem.	 pigeonpea Macrophomina phaseolina

These nematodes cause symptoms both on leaves and roots. Foliar symptoms of root-knot disease may be expressed at any time during the growing season. These symptoms of nematode damage on peanut plants range from stunting, yellowing, wilting and even plant death.  Ferris (1999–2012), also reported that nematodes cause yellowing; mid-day wilting; symptoms of water and nutrient stress; and sometimes death, especially if the nematode is interacting with other organisms.  They can appear in a peanut crop beginning about 100 days after planting or after periods of dry hot weather.  Areas of root-knot nematode damaged peanut are usually round to oblong in shape, and rows of infected plants may never overlap as those of healthy plants. It is common for plants to wilt and eventually die in areas where nematode populations are high.Root symptoms are similar to those caused by all nematodes including a reduction in number of feeder roots and root stunting, but root knot nematodes cause unique symptoms on roots and pods. Nematodes cause galls (knots) to form on both roots and pods of the peanut, and these galls are highly diagnostic for root-knot nematode presence compared to other nematodes affecting peanut. The presence of galls on roots, pegs and pods appears as single or multiple wart-like growths that may or may not be discolored. As root knot nematode infection progresses, and generally later in the season, secondary root and pod rots cause further damage and eventual death of the plants.Many soil-borne fungi, especially Sclerotium rolfsii (which causes southern stem rot) and Sclerotinia minor (which causes Sclerotinia blight), will infect the weakened peanut plants and cause more plant death. Root knot nematode infection of the peg weakens the peg so that it breaks during harvest, contributing to additional yield losses because the detached pods are then left in the soil. Infection of the pods leads to a decline in yield quality.The damage threshold, or the initial nematode population density at which peanut yields begin to decline, has been reported to be in the range of 1 to 10 eggs and second stage juveniles per 500 cm3 soil for M. arenaria on susceptible peanut cultivars.	 pigeonpea Meloidogyne arenaria

Plants affected by M. incognita present above ground symptoms of water- and nutrient-stress, yellowing, wilting, and stunting. Below ground galling on roots, bulbs, tubers is the typical symptom. Plant death may occur in high infestation level.	 pigeonpea Meloidogyne incognita

Because there are so many different hosts for this pathogen, the symptoms are very variable. Common symptoms include abnormal leaf color, abnormal leaf form, wilting leaves, galls, swollen roots, reduced root system, dwarfing and senescence (Cabi 2018). This pathogen does the most damage when present in light soils with hot weather conditions (Alford 2012).	 pigeonpea Meloidogyne javanica

Mungbean yellow mosaic disease is characterized by a bright yellow mosaic on the leaves of infected plants and causes significant losses to mungbean (Vigna radiata) crops in India.	 pigeonpea Mung bean yellow mosaic virus

L. taurica is the pathogen responsible for powdery mildew on onions, but it can also infect peppers, tomatoes, eggplant, cotton, and garlic. While L. taurica can infect many different plants it is actually very host specific. Different races of L. taurica can only infect certain crops, and even specific cultivars within the same crop. An accurate way to describe its host specificity is that this disease is, “a composite species consisting of many host-specific races." Symptoms of Onion Powdery Mildew (OPM) are usually seen as circular or oblong lesions that are 5 to 20 mm and have a chlorotic or necrotic appearance. The lesions appear on older leaves before the bulb of the onion begins to form, but also can occur on the younger leaves towards the end of the season. As the disease progresses signs of OPM can also be seen. On the lesions white mycelium can be found with conidiophores bearing either lanceolate or rounded condia.	 pigeonpea Oidiopsis taurica

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 pigeonpea Phytophthora nicotianae var. parasitica

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 pigeonpea Phytophthora parasitica

Pythium aphanidermatum is responsible for pre- and post-emergence damping off.  Pre-emergence damping off is when the seed is infected prior to germination.  This can result in poor or no germination, and is observable as a browning or rotting of the seed.  Post-emergence damping off takes place after germination and results in a thinning, water-soaked stem near the plant collar, which eventually causes the collapse of the plant.  P. aphanidermatum can also cause root rot.  Symptoms of root rot include stunted growth, chlorotic leaves, leaf drop, and wilting.  The infection begins at the root tip, and can cause the infected region to lose its protective outer layer, exposing the inner root to other pathogens	 pigeonpea Pythium aphanidermatum

One of the most harmful seed and soil borne pathogens, Macrophomina phaseolina is a fungus that infects nearly 500 plant species in more than 100 families. The hosts include: peanut, cabbage, pepper, chickpea, soybean, sunflower, sweet potato, alfalfa, sesame, potato, sorghum, wheat, and corn, among others. The identification of isolates of M. phaseolina is usually based on morphology and efforts to divide the pathogen into subspecies, but because there are wide intraspecific variations in the phenotype of the isolates, these criteria are often not reliable. The failure to correctly detect and identify M. phaseolina using conventional culture-based morphological techniques has led scientists to develop nucleic acid-based molecular approaches, such as highly sensitive and specific polymerase chain reaction-based methods. Researchers have also recently created species-specific oligonucleotide primers and digoxigenin-labeled probes in hopes of better identifying and detecting M. phaseolina.The pathogen M. phaseolina affects the fibrovascular system of the roots and basal internodes of its host, impeding the transport of water and nutrients to the upper parts of the plant. As a result, progressive wilting, premature dying, loss of vigor, and reduced yield are characteristic symptoms of M. phaseolina infection. The fungus also causes many diseases like damping off, seedling blight, collar rot, stem rot, charcoal rot, basal stem rot, and root rot. Although brown lesions may form on the hypocotyls or emerging seedlings, many symptoms occur during or after flowering, including grey discoloration of the stem and taproots, shredding of plant tissue in the stem and top of the taproot, and hollowing of the stem. Small black dots may form beneath the epidermis of the lower stem and in the taproot, giving the stems and roots a charcoal-sprinkled appearance. When the epidermis is removed, small and black microsclerotia (a sign of the disease) may be so numerous that they give a greyish-black tint to the plant tissue. In addition, reddish-brown discoloration and black streaks can form in the pith and vascular tissues of the root and stem.	 pigeonpea Rhizoctonia bataticola

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 pigeonpea Rhizoctonia solani

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 pigeonpea Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 pigeonpea Thanatephorus cucumeris

Like other plant pathogenic viruses, TMV has a very wide host range and has different effects depending on the host being infected. Tobacco mosaic virus has been known to cause a production loss for flue cured tobacco of up to two percent in North Carolina. It is known to infect members of nine plant families, and at least 125 individual species, including tobacco, tomato, pepper (all members of the useful Solanaceae), cucumbers, a number of ornamental flowers, and beans including Phaseolus vulgaris and Vigna unguiculata. There are many different strains. The first symptom of this virus disease is a light green coloration between the veins of young leaves. This is followed quickly by the development of a "mosaic" or mottled pattern of light and dark green areas in the leaves. Rugosity may also be seen where the infected plant leaves display small localized random wrinkles. These symptoms develop quickly and are more pronounced on younger leaves. Its infection does not result in plant death, but if infection occurs early in the season, plants are stunted. Lower leaves are subjected to "mosaic burn"  especially during periods of hot and dry weather. In these cases, large dead areas develop in the leaves. This constitutes one of the most destructive phases of Tobacco mosaic virus infection. Infected leaves may be crinkled, puckered, or elongated. However, if TMV infects crops like grape and apple, it is almost symptomless. TMV is able  to infect and complete its replication cycle in a plant pathogenic fungus,TMV is able to enter and replicate in cells of C. acutatum, C. clavatum, and C. theobromicola, which may not be an exception, although it has neither been found nor probably searched for in nature.	 pigeonpea Tobacco mosaic virus

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 pineapple Botryodiplodia theobromae

One of the most well-known diseases caused by Ceratocystis paradoxa is Black rot or stem-end rot of pineapple, but it can also infect tropical fruit plants such as banana and coconuts as well as sugarcane. The pathogen infects the fruits through wounds or other openings after harvest has already happened and the fruit is fresh.Symptoms for this disease are very obvious black lesions on the fruit, the main infection part of the plant. If the pathogen infects the plant while fruits are still on it, they will prematurely drop. Other symptoms include discoloration of leaves as well as the seeds. The lesions on the fruit evolve to become soft rot spots that produce a heinous odor. The fruit can even get to the point of breakdown.Known hosts:Ananas comosus (pineapple)AraceaeAreca catechu (betelnut palm)Borassus flabellifer (toddy palm)Butia capitataCocos nucifera (coconut)Coffea (coffee)Daucus carota (carrot)Dypsis decaryiElaeis guineensis (African oil palm)EucalyptusHowea forsteriana (paradise palm)Mangifera indica (mango)Musa x paradisiaca (plantain)Phoenix dactylifera (date-palm)Saccharum officinarum (sugarcane)Solanum muricatum (melon pear)Theobroma cacao (cocoa)Zea mays (maize)	 pineapple Ceratocystis paradoxa

One of the most well-known diseases caused by Ceratocystis paradoxa is Black rot or stem-end rot of pineapple, but it can also infect tropical fruit plants such as banana and coconuts as well as sugarcane. The pathogen infects the fruits through wounds or other openings after harvest has already happened and the fruit is fresh.Symptoms for this disease are very obvious black lesions on the fruit, the main infection part of the plant. If the pathogen infects the plant while fruits are still on it, they will prematurely drop. Other symptoms include discoloration of leaves as well as the seeds. The lesions on the fruit evolve to become soft rot spots that produce a heinous odor. The fruit can even get to the point of breakdown.Known hosts:Ananas comosus (pineapple)AraceaeAreca catechu (betelnut palm)Borassus flabellifer (toddy palm)Butia capitataCocos nucifera (coconut)Coffea (coffee)Daucus carota (carrot)Dypsis decaryiElaeis guineensis (African oil palm)EucalyptusHowea forsteriana (paradise palm)Mangifera indica (mango)Musa x paradisiaca (plantain)Phoenix dactylifera (date-palm)Saccharum officinarum (sugarcane)Solanum muricatum (melon pear)Theobroma cacao (cocoa)Zea mays (maize)	 pineapple Chalara paradoxa

D. dadantii is phytopathogenic bacterium causing soft rot diseases on many host plants including some which are economically important. D. dadantii, more commonly known as: soft rot, brown rot or blackleg, causes characteristic symptoms associated with other bacterial wilts, causing final diagnosis to be difficult. The pathogen primarily seeks to attack the plant's xylem vessels located in leaves, stems, blossoms and storage organs of herbaceous plants. D. dadantii is able to infect hosts at any point in its life cycle. In addition to symptoms of wilt, the disease appears as sunken and cracked external lesions also having a brown interior in cross section in subterranean bulbs and tubers Diseased plants will display a variety of symptoms including: wilting, stunting and vascular discoloration of the stems. Early symptoms include water soaked lesions at the site of infection, gradually expanding chlorotic leaves and loss of turgor in tissues. The intensity of D. dadantii colonization relates to the amount of disease and degree of damage. The pathogen is very successful at infiltrating host tissues due to the many pectinases responsible for disassembly of plant cell wall polysaccharides. Once the cell wall is degraded cellular structure collapses and this cell maceration gives a characteristic "water-soaked" or rotted appearance. D. dadantii grow intercellularly, continuing to degrade cells and colonize, until it eventually reaches xylem tissues. Upon reaching the xylem vessels D. dadantii possesses the ability to spread to new regions of the host and other areas may begin to display symptoms. Colonization within the xylem restricts flow of water causing loss of turgor pressure and wilting of foliage and stems. Restricted movement of important plant compounds eventually lead to death of the host.	 pineapple Erwinia chrysanthemi

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 pineapple Lasiodiplodia theobromae

Because there are so many different hosts for this pathogen, the symptoms are very variable. Common symptoms include abnormal leaf color, abnormal leaf form, wilting leaves, galls, swollen roots, reduced root system, dwarfing and senescence (Cabi 2018). This pathogen does the most damage when present in light soils with hot weather conditions (Alford 2012).	 pineapple Meloidogyne javanica

Fruitlet core rot (FCR) is the disease of a pineapple fruit, from the pathogen Penicillium funiculosum that is brown or black in color and rotted in the center. FCR is associated with multiple pathogens, such as Candida guilliermondi in addition to P. funiculosum, however, leathery pocket (LP) and interfruitlet corking (IFC) are only associated with P. funiculosum. FCR, LP and IFC were reported as separate diseases at one time, but are now known to be symptoms of the same disease, referred to as Pineapple Fruit Rot.P. funiculosum infects the flower of pineapple fruits, before the characteristic yellow fruit is formed. When P. funiculosum infects the closed pineapple flowers, early symptoms include necrosis of the anthers, which are the male parts of the flower, and pistil, the female part, and cork formation and sporulation within the ovary of the flower. This destruction of reproductive tissue prevents propagation of healthy fruit and ruins the growing crops. Later symptoms of the disease include a darkening of the septa between the locules. This discoloration can spread throughout the fruit. Extensive corking is what results in leathery pocket. In a healthy plant, fruitlets join together to produce one large fruit. Interfruitlet corking occurs when these fruitlets develop incorrectly and grow together unevenly.	 pineapple Penicillium funiculosum

The host range for Phytophythora cinnamomi is very broad. It is distributed worldwide and causes disease on hundreds of hosts. The disease affects a range of economic groups, including food crops such as avocado and pineapple as well as trees and woody ornamentals such as Fraser firs, shortleaf pines, loblolly pines, azaleas, camellia, boxwood, causing root rot and dieback. It is a root pathogen that causes root rot and death of host plants. Some symptoms include: wilting, decreased fruit size, decrease in yield, collar rot, gum exudation, necrosis, leaf chlorosis, leaf curl, and stem cankers. Another symptom is that it can cause dieback of young shoots and may interfere with transpiration of roots to shoots. Older plants may not exhibit symptoms or may display only mild dieback despite having severe root rot.	 pineapple Phytophthora cinnamomi

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 pineapple Phytophthora nicotianae var. parasitica

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 pineapple Phytophthora parasitica

Fruit that is bruised and/or damage and  is kept in unsanitary and high humidity conditions are especially susceptible to this disease. Once infected, the fruit begins to form brown/black lesions. Over time, the lesions become soft, water rot spots making the fruit unappetizing and inedible. In extreme cases, the rot can be so severe that the skin, flesh and core of the fruit breaks down completely and proceeds to leak of out the shell surrounding once healthy fruit. When infection occurs out in the field, brown lesions can develop in wet weather where leaves rub together in the wind. In dry weather, white, paper spots with margins develop. Plants are usually stunted, produce an unusual foul odor,  show a soft base rot of the stem and young leaves, and drop their fruit prematurely.	 pineapple Pineapple black rot

One of the most well-known diseases caused by Ceratocystis paradoxa is Black rot or stem-end rot of pineapple, but it can also infect tropical fruit plants such as banana and coconuts as well as sugarcane. The pathogen infects the fruits through wounds or other openings after harvest has already happened and the fruit is fresh.Symptoms for this disease are very obvious black lesions on the fruit, the main infection part of the plant. If the pathogen infects the plant while fruits are still on it, they will prematurely drop. Other symptoms include discoloration of leaves as well as the seeds. The lesions on the fruit evolve to become soft rot spots that produce a heinous odor. The fruit can even get to the point of breakdown.Known hosts:Ananas comosus (pineapple)AraceaeAreca catechu (betelnut palm)Borassus flabellifer (toddy palm)Butia capitataCocos nucifera (coconut)Coffea (coffee)Daucus carota (carrot)Dypsis decaryiElaeis guineensis (African oil palm)EucalyptusHowea forsteriana (paradise palm)Mangifera indica (mango)Musa x paradisiaca (plantain)Phoenix dactylifera (date-palm)Saccharum officinarum (sugarcane)Solanum muricatum (melon pear)Theobroma cacao (cocoa)Zea mays (maize)	 pineapple Thielaviopsis paradoxa

TSWV infects a variety of hosts, contributing to its global economic impact on crops. There are over a thousand different hosts for TSWV. The host range of TSWV includes agronomically important crops like tomatoes and tobacco. The symptoms of TSWV vary from host to host. There is also variability of symptoms within a single type of host due to the age of the plant, nutrition and the environment (especially temperature). Common symptoms include stunting, ringspots on fruit and necrosis of leaves. There are many different strains of TSWV, and differences in symptoms may also be attributed to the differences in the number of strains present.	 pineapple Tomato spotted wilt virus

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 pistachio Alternaria alternata

Armillaria mellea typically infects hardwood trees and conifers but sometimes will infect non-woody monocots and a few herbaceous plants. There are few signs, and the ones that do exist are often hard to find. The most prominent sign is honey-colored mushrooms at the base of the infected plant. Additional signs include white, fan-shaped mycelia and black rhizomorphs with diameters between 1/32nd of an inch and 1/8th of an inch. These usually are not as noticeable because they occur beneath the bark and in the soil, respectively. The symptoms are much more numerous, including slower growth, dieback of branches, yellowing foliage, rotted wood at base and/or roots, external cankers, cracking bark, bleeding stem, leaf wilting, defoliation, and rapid death. Leaf wilting, defoliation, and dieback occur after the destruction of the cambium.	 pistachio Armillaria mellea

Phomopsis cane and leaf spot is a disease that causes symptoms in the common grapevine species, Vitis vinifera, in many regions of the world. This disease is mainly caused by the fungal pathogen, Phomopsis viticola, and is known to affect many cultivars of table grapes, such as Thompson Seedless, Red Globe, and Flame Seedless. Also in vines of oenological interest, such as Cabernet Sauvignon, Zinfandel, Syrah, Barbera, Chardonnay and Merlot. Spots or lesions on shoots and leaves are common symptoms of the disease. Small, black spots on the internodes at the base of developing shoots are probably the most common disease symptom. These spots are usually found on the first three to four basal internodes. The spots may develop into elliptical lesions that may grow together to form irregular, black, crusty areas. Under severe conditions, shoots may split and form longitudinal cracks. Although cane lesions often appear to result in little damage to the vines, it is important to remember that these lesions are the primary source of overwintering inoculum for the next growing season. Leaf infections first appear as small, light-green spots with irregular, occasionally star-shaped margins. Usually only the lower one to four leaves on a shoot are affected. In time, the spots become larger, turn black, and have a yellow margin . Leaves become distorted and die if large numbers of lesions develop. Infections of leaf petioles may cause leaves to turn yellow and fall off. All parts of the grape cluster (berries and rachises or cluster stems) are susceptible to infection throughout the growing season; however, most infections appear to occur early in the growing season. Lesions developing on the first one or two cluster stems (rachises) on a shoot may result in premature withering of the cluster stem. Infected clusters that survive until harvest often produce infected or poor-quality fruit. Soil moisture and temperature can impact the severity of symptoms, leading to a systemic infection in warm and wet conditions.	 pistachio Eutypa lata

Phomopsis cane and leaf spot is a disease that causes symptoms in the common grapevine species, Vitis vinifera, in many regions of the world. This disease is mainly caused by the fungal pathogen, Phomopsis viticola, and is known to affect many cultivars of table grapes, such as Thompson Seedless, Red Globe, and Flame Seedless. Also in vines of oenological interest, such as Cabernet Sauvignon, Zinfandel, Syrah, Barbera, Chardonnay and Merlot. Spots or lesions on shoots and leaves are common symptoms of the disease. Small, black spots on the internodes at the base of developing shoots are probably the most common disease symptom. These spots are usually found on the first three to four basal internodes. The spots may develop into elliptical lesions that may grow together to form irregular, black, crusty areas. Under severe conditions, shoots may split and form longitudinal cracks. Although cane lesions often appear to result in little damage to the vines, it is important to remember that these lesions are the primary source of overwintering inoculum for the next growing season. Leaf infections first appear as small, light-green spots with irregular, occasionally star-shaped margins. Usually only the lower one to four leaves on a shoot are affected. In time, the spots become larger, turn black, and have a yellow margin . Leaves become distorted and die if large numbers of lesions develop. Infections of leaf petioles may cause leaves to turn yellow and fall off. All parts of the grape cluster (berries and rachises or cluster stems) are susceptible to infection throughout the growing season; however, most infections appear to occur early in the growing season. Lesions developing on the first one or two cluster stems (rachises) on a shoot may result in premature withering of the cluster stem. Infected clusters that survive until harvest often produce infected or poor-quality fruit. Soil moisture and temperature can impact the severity of symptoms, leading to a systemic infection in warm and wet conditions.	 pistachio Libertella blepharis

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 pistachio Phymatotrichopsis omnivora

This species is reported to be pathogenic on grandiflora petunia (Petunia × atkinsiana). It causes root rot, shoot rot and shanking in tulips. It also infects blue daze (Evolvulus glomeratus), dusty miller (Jacobaea maritima), Barberton daisy (Gerbera jamesonii), and garden verbena (Verbena × hybrida). Like its relative Phytophtora cambivora, it can cause ink disease of chestnuts (Castanea sativa).The species is a cause of foot rot in tomatoes, causing discoloration and lesion in the stem. Progression of lesions leads to girdling, root system rot and plant collapse. Foliage will not be affected until plant stem has become girdled.	 pistachio Phytophthora cryptogea

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 pistachio Phytophthora nicotianae var. parasitica

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 pistachio Rhizoctonia solani

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 pistachio Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

Stigmatomycosis is characterized by a wet, smelly, rancid, slimy kernel. Kernels with stigmatomycosis can be 1) small, dark green and partially developed with a brown funiculus, 2) well-developed, dark green and rancid, or 3) full-sized but abnormal, being white or light yellow and jelly-like, with a lobed appearance. In contrast, symptoms of kernel necrosis, which is caused by large hemipterans, are dry, punky, brown areas in the kernel. Sometimes, kernel necrosis and stigmatomycosis symptoms can be present in the same fruit.	 pistachio Stigmatomycosis

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 pistachio Thanatephorus cucumeris

There are many strains of Verticillium dahliae which are categorized into vegetative compatibility groups (VCG). These groups comprise strains that are able to exchange genetic material via anastomosis. Each VCG affects a few or only one host and the virulence of the pathogen varies by host. While individual V. dahliae strains are relatively host specific, as a species it has a wide range.Verticillium dahliae has a very wide host range, affecting over 300 plant species. Some susceptible crops include Brussels sprouts, cabbage, eggplant, cucumbers, mint, pepper, potatoes, pumpkin, spinach, tomato, watermelon, honeydew, and cantaloupe. Of these, tomato, potato, and eggplant have resistant or tolerant varieties.Symptoms of this disease are seen throughout the plant. Leaves may have abnormal coloration, necrotic areas, wilt, and/or fall off the plant. The stem may have discolored vascular tissue, exhibit rosetting (shortened internodes of the plant caused by reduced growth, resulting in a rosette-like appearance), and/or be stunted. Early senescence and dieback may also occur.Microsclerotia can be seen under a lens as small black structures in the vasculature of living and dead plants. This feature can be used to distinguish V. dahliae from V. albo-atrum, the other verticillium wilt pathogen.	 pistachio Verticillium dahliae

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 pocketbook plant Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

Armillaria species infect a wide variety of woody plants. In a survey of 250 permanent plots of trees in Albania, Armillaria tabescens affected multiple species of trees including fir species, where it invaded when the plant was stressed. Tsopelas et al. reported Armillaria tabescens to be more prevalent in areas where the trees were stressed due to limited moisture. In oak trees, it was slightly more damaging and could kill young trees. Armillaria tabescens was also recorded in poplar and eucalyptus plantations, and almond trees were found to be very susceptible to infection. The results of the study by Lushaj et al. showed that Armillaria tabescens was most frequently recorded on fruit and ornamental trees compared to the other species.Armillaria tabescens causes separation of the bark from the wood by the production of mycelial fans in the trunk, a common sign of Armillaria root rot. It also causes gummosis, patches of gummy material on the surface of plants, which occurs in response to an external stimulus which causes the plant to ooze sap. Other common symptoms are soft rot of cortex, dwarfing, dieback, wilting, and abnormal coloring of the leaves. Small trees are killed rapidly by Armillaria tabescens and the symptoms aren’t noticeable until the leaves wilt. However, on larger trees symptoms occur earlier and start as a thin crown with small leaves. A crown of a tree refers to any branches or foliage that are growing out from the trunk. Therefore, thinning of the crown would mean reduced branches and leaves. The trees eventually start yellowing and defoliating followed by fast wilting and dying of limbs. The fungus is a white rot so it breaks down lignin in the wood. The breaking down of the lignin leads to the trees becoming hollow.	 poinsettia Armillaria tabescens

Hosts species include wheat, barley, oats, rye, triticale, turfgrasses and many other grass species found throughout the world.  Symptoms are found on lower leaves early in the season and upper leaves later in the season.  Lesions are usually elliptical and are initially chlorotic.  Later, they develop a brown margin with a white center and split longitudinally. Pycnidia can be found within the lesions are generally black in color.	 poinsettia Ascochyta

An irregular browning leaf margin which may or may not be bordered by a pale halo.Symptoms re-occur every year, spreading throughout the tree crown, eventually killing the host plant.	 poinsettia Bacterial leaf spot

Botryosphaeria ribis is an ascomycete plant pathogen that primarily affects woody hosts in a number of temperate and tropical regions. The susceptible hosts include a number of economically important plants such as apple, peach, almond, banana, and walnut trees, among others.  The disease is noted by cankers, leaf spots, and necrosis, as well as twig dieback. On healthy leaves, the necrosis begins apically at the margins, extending back along the midrib, occasionally reaching the base and causing complete blight of the leaf.  Twig dieback also starts apically and works towards the center of the plant.  It is characterized by a slow necrosis of the branch, leaving large, dead limbs on the upper portions of trees.  Under the microscope, it can be identified by its immersed, pyriform perithecia (pear-shaped, spore-containing structures), which have a brown exterior wall.  The ascospores within the perithecia are ellipsoid in shape, with a smooth exterior and granular cytoplasm.  The anamorph (asexual stage) of B. ribis is Fusicoccum ribis, and although less abundant, it is characterized by globose pycnidia containing smooth, hyaline macro- and microconidia.  These symptoms have the potential to significantly decrease yield or kill the host.	 poinsettia Botryosphaeria ribis

Colletotrichum capsici has a broad host range but prefers peppers, yams and eggplants. On chili peppers, Capsicum annuum L., C. capsici infect the stem, fruit, and leaves of the plant, causing anthracnose, die-back and ripe fruit rot. C. capsici infection tends to infect ripe red fruit and lead to the development of brown necrotic lesions containing concentric acervuli that will eventually appear black from the setae and sclerotia (Srinivasan, Vijayalakshmi Kothandaraman, Vaikuntavasan, & Rethinasamy, 2014). Additionally, the fruit content of capsaicin and oleoresin is reduced, which results in a decrease of its medicinal potency (Madhavan, Paranidharan, & Velazhahan, 2016).	 poinsettia Colletotrichum capsici

Curtobacterium flaccumfacien is a bacterial wilt pathogen. The hallmark symptoms of bacterial wilt are leaf and petiole wilting. Chlorosis of the leaf and tissue occurs due to the lack of water transport. C. flaccumfaciens has a wide host range not limited to kidney beans, soybeans, tulips, and tomatoes.  The species is separated into pathovars based on host range and symptoms.One of the economically important pathovars is C. f. pv. flaccumfaciens. This pathovar produces a bacterial wilt and its primary host range is the genus Phaseolus (beans), but the pathogen can infect many other species of the same family (Fabaceae). In beans, the symptoms can be devastating to the crop yield. These beans have severe foliage wilting and chlorosis.One ornamental example is C. f. pv. oortii. The primary host are plants from the genus Tulipa (tulips). Although the host range differs, the symptoms are relatively similar. During flowering, typical symptoms of dehydration are observed. Similarly to beans, the tulips get wilt. In severe cases, the plant eventually fails to recover from wilting and dies.	 poinsettia Curtobacterium flaccumfaciens

D. dadantii is phytopathogenic bacterium causing soft rot diseases on many host plants including some which are economically important. D. dadantii, more commonly known as: soft rot, brown rot or blackleg, causes characteristic symptoms associated with other bacterial wilts, causing final diagnosis to be difficult. The pathogen primarily seeks to attack the plant's xylem vessels located in leaves, stems, blossoms and storage organs of herbaceous plants. D. dadantii is able to infect hosts at any point in its life cycle. In addition to symptoms of wilt, the disease appears as sunken and cracked external lesions also having a brown interior in cross section in subterranean bulbs and tubers Diseased plants will display a variety of symptoms including: wilting, stunting and vascular discoloration of the stems. Early symptoms include water soaked lesions at the site of infection, gradually expanding chlorotic leaves and loss of turgor in tissues. The intensity of D. dadantii colonization relates to the amount of disease and degree of damage. The pathogen is very successful at infiltrating host tissues due to the many pectinases responsible for disassembly of plant cell wall polysaccharides. Once the cell wall is degraded cellular structure collapses and this cell maceration gives a characteristic "water-soaked" or rotted appearance. D. dadantii grow intercellularly, continuing to degrade cells and colonize, until it eventually reaches xylem tissues. Upon reaching the xylem vessels D. dadantii possesses the ability to spread to new regions of the host and other areas may begin to display symptoms. Colonization within the xylem restricts flow of water causing loss of turgor pressure and wilting of foliage and stems. Restricted movement of important plant compounds eventually lead to death of the host.	 poinsettia Erwinia chrysanthemi

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 poinsettia Fusarium solani

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 poinsettia Glomerella cingulata

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 poinsettia Lasiodiplodia theobromae

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 poinsettia Nectria haematococca

Symptoms on leaves appear as slightly sunken spots surrounded by a dark brown edge. The center of the spot may appear pink from the spore masses which are being produced by the fungus. Frequently, large areas on the leaf turn brown, dry out along the leaf margins, and eventually the leaf falls off. Symptoms on fruit also develop as small, discolored, sunken areas that enlarge and develop pink spore masses in the center. Fruits that develop will soft rot and drop off the tree. In chrysanthemum, the fungus will first produce an infection canker near the bottom of the stem after which the fungus most likely disturbes the plant hormonal system causing infected plants to grow taller then uninfected plants. In time, infected chrysanthemum plants will also show very typical blister like leasions on the leaves, making this disease quite easily recognisable.    	 poinsettia Nectriella pironii

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 poinsettia Phytophthora nicotianae

Pseudomonas cichorii is non-host specific as it does not infect just one host. Its host range includes lettuce, pepper, celery, coffee, wheat, basil and several other host plants. Symptoms of the causal agent vary depending on the host and the area of the plant infected. In general, pseudomonas cichorii is seen to cause leaf blighting and spotting. The first appearance of symptoms involves a water soaked lesion that develops at the edge of the leaf, midvein or randomly across the leaf  These lesions progressively turn black or brown and may be surrounded by yellow halos. These lesions also often “coalesce and progress to severe leaf blight under favorable conditions for the bacterium.” When the infected leaves become dry, the spots often look brittle and crack.	 poinsettia Pseudomonas cichorii

Kiwis are grown in countries such as Italy, New Zealand, China, and Chile making this bacterium a problem in kiwi-growing regions across the world. Kiwis have a long growing season from the beginning of spring to the fall which indicates that kiwis grow in warmer temperatures, but colder temperatures are important for the leaves to fall of the vine and for new buds to form in the spring. The pathogen, Pseudomonas viridiflava, was first discovered in kiwifruit in New Zealand in 1973. It has been discovered on 31 other plant species such as tomato, melon, eggplant, and blight. Symptoms on each host differ slightly, but in general, this bacterium causes a soft rot in the stem or flowering structures, not in woody tissues, which results in these structures turning brown and dying.To continue, the symptoms of this bacterial blight include spots and lesions on leaves, and rot of floral buds and flowers. The floral symptoms undergo changes throughout the seasons that ultimately end in the floral bud dying and falling off. These symptoms are found initially as brown and sunken spots on the green sepals of the vine that enclose the flower buds. The result is the flower buds begin to rot when unopened. If the buds do open and yield a yellow-orange color, rather than white, the flower turns brown rather quickly and dies. In addition, the anthers or male sexual parts of the flower can be destroyed in this disease causing an incomplete retraction of sepals. Regarding the leaves, symptoms are visible in later spring and are found on the lower leaves first. The lesions created are angular and gray on the lower leaves, and the lesions are surrounded with a yellow halo on the upper leaves. These lesions turn brown and can be a site for a secondary infection by a fungus or some other pathogen. All of this leads to abnormal fruit development on diseased plants which can create an economic problem for the grower. Fruit development is the largest economical concern when referring to this pathogen. Yield loss can become very high, reaching over 90% in orchards that have symptoms of this pathogen. When no symptoms are present, however, the plant is healthy and fruit development is normal. It is stated that it is very rare to find normal fruit development on plants with symptoms of bacterial blight showing how detrimental this disease and pathogen is.Furthermore, host factors have had an influence on this disease. Pseudomonas viridiflava can survive on the surface of the plant as an epiphyte, meaning it is present on leaves without disease occurring. This allows the pathogen to associate itself with the healthy kiwifruit vine by maintaining a non-pathological relationship with the host. This pathogen also utilizes its large host range to survive on other hosts when not infecting a kiwifruit vine. Lastly, the host does not do anything specifically to help this disease spread, but does not have the proper defense mechanisms to prevent the bacterium from surviving on the plant or stopping this disease from spreading throughout.	 poinsettia Pseudomonas viridiflava

Pythium aphanidermatum is responsible for pre- and post-emergence damping off.  Pre-emergence damping off is when the seed is infected prior to germination.  This can result in poor or no germination, and is observable as a browning or rotting of the seed.  Post-emergence damping off takes place after germination and results in a thinning, water-soaked stem near the plant collar, which eventually causes the collapse of the plant.  P. aphanidermatum can also cause root rot.  Symptoms of root rot include stunted growth, chlorotic leaves, leaf drop, and wilting.  The infection begins at the root tip, and can cause the infected region to lose its protective outer layer, exposing the inner root to other pathogens	 poinsettia Pythium aphanidermatum

Pythium myriotylum is a causal agent of soft root rot in economically important crops including peanuts, tomato, rye, wheat, oats, cucumber, soybean, sorghum, tobacco, cabbage, and maize. Pythium myriotylum causes pre-emergence damping off, it infects the seed and causes it to rot before plant growth.  This causes the plant seedling to become shriveled, soft, and brown. In a study done on soybeans, some symptoms that were seen were rotting of roots, diseased seedlings in the field, plus rotting and blight of seedlings. Pythium myriotylum can also cause post-emergence damping off in peanuts, resulting in discoloration of the seedlings and roots along with a water-soaked appearance in certain areas, these symptoms usually result in the death of the seedlings.	 poinsettia Pythium myriotylum

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 poinsettia Rhizoctonia solani

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 poinsettia Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 potato Alternaria alternata

Alternaria solani infects stems, leaves and fruits of tomato (Solanum lycopersicum L.), potato (S. tuberosum), eggplant (S. melongena L.), bell pepper and hot pepper (Capsicum spp.), and other members of the family Solanaceae. Distinguishing symptoms of A. solani include leaf spot and defoliation, which are most pronounced in the lower canopy. In some cases, A. solani may also cause damping off.	 potato Alternaria solani

Plants that are infected will tend to display early symptoms within 5 days. The BCTV causes many symptoms including:Vein swelling (the earliest and most common symptom)Leaf curlingYellowing of leaves with purple veinsNecrosis and hyperplasia of the phloemFruit deformationPremature fruit ripeningReduced fruit quality and yieldStuntingDeath of young seedlings	 potato Beet curly top virus

Early blackleg symptoms develop in the growing season soon after the plants emerge. They are characterized by stunted, yellowish foliage that has a stiff, upright habit. The lower part of the below ground stem of such plants is dark brown to black in color and extensively decayed. When infected, the pith region of the stem is particularly susceptible to decay and may extend upward in the stem far beyond the tissue with externally visible symptoms. Young plants affected by blackleg are particularly susceptible, typically dying after a halt in development.Blackleg symptoms may develop in more mature plants during the later part of the growing season, and are distinguished from those that develop earlier in the season.  Blackleg appears as a black discoloration of previously healthy stems, accompanied by a rapid wilting, and sometimes yellowing, of the leaves.  Starting below ground, black discoloration moves up the stem, often until the entire stem is black and wilted.  However, in some cases of early disease development, mature stems may turn yellow and wilt even before black decay is evident.  However, after the entire stem exhibits disease symptoms, the wilted plant can be lost from view in the healthy potato plant canopy.	 potato Blackleg (potatoes)

C. sepidonicus is an economically important pathogen because it affects only potato, which was the 12th highest ranking commodity in 2009, generating $44,128,413,000 globally. Like all bacteria in the genus Clavibacter, C. sepidonicus causes a systemic vascular infection by invading the xylem vessels and multiplying there which sometimes leads to plugged xylem vessels. When diagnosing a C. sepidonicus infection in potato, look for discoloration of the vascular ring within the tuber that has been described as "glassy" or "water-soaked" with the ooze inside having a "cheese-like consistency".Symptoms of potato 'ring rot' are yellowing of the leaf margins which later turn brown and look like they are burned. Tubers rot from the inside, sometimes progressing to leave hollow shells. Rotting of the tubers is the more common symptom. Infected land cannot be used again for susceptible crops for several years. Among others, United States, Canada, many EU states and Middle Eastern countries have not yet been able to eradicate this pathogen.	 potato Clavibacter michiganensis subsp. sepedonicus

Colletotrichum coccodes can infect potato, onion, tomato and has a large host range. The disease also infects hosts from the Cucurbitaceae, Fabaceae and Solanaceae families).Colletotrichum coccodes can cause lesions, twisted leaves, and a bleached color on onion.On tomato, can see that there are sunken in dark spots. As the disease continues to develop can begin to see spots that are rotting. The pathogen can infect both green and ripe fruit; spots are not evident on green right away, but over time they develop. (Dillard, 1987).  Symptoms are most common on the fruit, but they may also appear on the stem, leaves, and roots.In potato, C. coccodes is characterized by silvery lesions on the tuber surface which result in a deterioration in skin quality. In addition to causing tuber blemish symptoms, C. coccodes also causes symptoms on stems and foliage, which result in crop losses, and is implicated as a factor in the potato early dying disease complex. In the past the pathogen was not regarded as an issue, but it has become more prevalent.	 potato Colletotrichum coccodes

Common scab is a prevalent plant disease that is caused by the bacteria Streptomyces and it can affect a wide range of taproot crop hosts. Some examples of Streptomyces hosts are potatoes, beets, carrots, parsnips, radishes, rutabagas, and turnips. There are a few different symptoms that can arise from common scab. In some hosts, brown spots or lesions  can appear on the surface of the root, and the severity can vary from mild spotting to deep pits on the surface.  These lesions can cause secondary infections or attract nearby organisms and cause a lot of damage to the root. These symptoms are the same across the whole range of hosts. Although the disease does not affect the overall harvest, the appearance of infected plants is ruined. In crops such as potatoes, this can mean an unsellable crop and cause an extensive amount of loss for a farmer.	 potato Common scab

This virus was first characterized in cucumbers (Cucumis sativus) showing mosaic symptoms in 1934, hence the name Cucumber mosaic. Since then, it has been found to infect a great variety of other plants. These include other vegetables such as squash, melons, peppers, eggplants, tomatoes, beans, carrots, celery, lettuce, spinach, beets, many ornamentals and bedding plants, such as Narcissus, and various weeds. Its presence has been confirmed on every continent of the world, including Antarctica.Symptoms seen with this virus include leaf mosaic or mottling (Fig. 1), yellowing, ringspots, stunting, and leaf, flower and fruit distortion. CMV also induces a type of symptom on leaves known as the "shoestring" effect on many host species. This effect causes young leaves to appear narrow and the entire plant to be stunted.Specifically, CMV can cause cucumbers to turn pale and bumpy. The leaves of these plants turn mosaic and their rugosity is often changed, making leaves wrinkled and misshapen. Growth of these plants is usually also stunted and produces few flowers. Often, cucumber fruits are oddly shaped, appear gray, and tested bitter. These appearances lead to them being referred to as "white pickles".Tomato plants are usually stunted and have poorly shaped leaves, or "fernleaf", when infected by CMV. Also certain strains of CMV can cause partial or total crop loss. CMV in peppers causes slightly different symptoms than the previously mentioned. Pepper plants often have severe foliar damage, shown as mosaic and necrotic rings. Often the peppers themselves are misshapen and contain chlorotic rings and spots. In celery, CMV causes streaking and spotting and can be often confused with symptoms of the celery mosaic virus. Symptoms of CMV in lettuce, such as chlorosis, plant stunting and often do not properly head, can be very similar to those of lettuce mosaic virus.CMV has also been identified in a lesser extent to a number of plant species. It is found to be a minor virus infecting Allium crops. The virus infection causes extensive malformation on garlic plants, and mild malformation to severe necrotic streaks on onion leaves. The severe damages on garlic plants and difficulty of aphids transmission of garlic isolate, were possible causal for the rare CMV on garlic. Genetically, the two onion isolates from Turkey (CMV-14.3Po and CMV-15.5Po) are highly similar to others isolated from various plant species in Mediterranean, European, and East Asian countries. CMV was also detected on American beautyberry, an important wildlife and pollinator food source plant native to North America.In plant tissue this virus makes characteristic viral inclusion bodies which can be diagnostic. They are hexagonal in shape (Fig. 2) and stain both in a protein stain and a nucleic acid stain. The inclusions can also be rhomboidal, may appear hollow (Fig. 2) and can form larger aggregates. The inclusions are not uniformly distributed and can be found in epidermal (Fig. 2), mesophyll, and stomatal cells. These inclusions are made up of virus particles.			 potato Cucumber mosaic virus

The host for Dickeya solani is the potato plant (Solanum tuberosum). Dickeya spp. can be the causal agents of soft rots and black leg. The symptoms that this bacteria causes can at times not be easily distinguished from the symptoms caused by Pectobacterium spp, since both pathogens induce a rotting of the plant tissue and black leg symptoms on the host. Black leg symptoms consist of wet, black rot on the stem that spread up from the original seed tuber. Symptoms of a Dickeya solani infection can include wilts and soft rots. The wilts occur when the bacterial pathogen invades the vascular system of the plant. The wilt symptoms can progress rather rapidly. Soft rots can be identified as soft, watery plant tissue with small, wet stem lesions.	 potato Dickeya solani

In addition to potatoes, potato rot nematodes have a wide range of over 100 species of hosts from numerous families. Some of these include alfalfa, beets, carrots, garlic, hops, mint, parsnips, peanuts, rhubarb, tomatoes, and flowering plants such as irises and tulips.  The nematodes only attack the below ground, non-aerial tissues of plants such as the roots, bulbs, rhizomes, and tubers.The main symptoms of Ditylenchus destructor, common to potatoes and its other hosts, are the rotting and discoloration of subterranean plant tissue.  In potatoes, early infection can be detected by small white spots underneath the potato’s skin.  As the disease progresses, these spots become larger and darker with a spongy or hollow appearance. Tubers develop sunken areas and the skin becomes dry, cracked, and detached from the underlying flesh. There is further discoloration at this stage that is often due to secondary invasions of fungi, bacteria, and free-living nematodes.  Above ground symptoms are usually not seen, although heavily infected plants are often weaker, smaller and can have curled or discolored leaves.Symptoms of Ditylenchus destructor on the bulbs of flowering plants such as irises and tulips are similar to those of potatoes, except infection usually occurs at the bulb’s base and moves upwards.  The fleshy scales develop discolored yellow to black lesions, the roots become blackened, and leaves can develop yellow tips.   Potato rot nematodes in groundnuts, such as peanuts, develop blackened hulls, shrunken kernels, and embryos with a brown discoloration.Potato rot nematodes are identified and diagnosed by various morphological and molecular methods.  The morphological methods are the primary means of diagnosis, with molecular methods being used for when there is a low level of infestation or when only juveniles are present.  Nematodes are extracted from infected plant tissue and examined microscopically for distinguishing characteristics such as body and stylet, and tail morphology.  Molecular methods for identifying Ditylenchus destructor (especially in distinguishing from other Ditylenchus species) include PCRs (polymerase chain reactions) to find restriction patterns of DNA to identify specific species.	 potato Ditylenchus destructor

Fusarium dry rot of potato is a devastating post-harvest losses (vegetables) disease affecting both seed potatoes and potatoes for human consumption. Dry rot causes the skin of the tuber to wrinkle. The rotted areas of the potato may be brown, grey, or black and the rot creates depressions in the surface of the tuber. Seed pieces may rot completely before they have the chance to be planted.The genus that causes dry rot of potato, Fusarium, is a fungus. Signs of Fusarium can be seen on an infected potato, and include white or pink mycelia (masses of vegetative fungal tissue) and very colorful spores that can be blue, black, purple, grey, white, yellow, or pink.	 potato Fusarium dry rot

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 potato Fusarium solani f.sp. eumartii

The fungal pathogen Fusarium oxysporum affects a wide variety of hosts of any age. Tomato, tobacco, legumes, cucurbits, sweet potatoes and banana are a few of the most susceptible plants, but it also infects other herbaceous plants. F. oxysporum generally produces symptoms such as wilting, chlorosis, necrosis, premature leaf drop, browning of the vascular system, stunting and damping-off. The most important of these is vascular wilt. Fusarium wilt starts out looking like vein clearing on the younger leaves and drooping of the older lower leaves, followed by stunting, yellowing of the lower leaves, defoliation, marginal necrosis and plant death. On older plants, symptoms are more distinct between the blossoming and fruit maturation stages.F. oxysporum is split into divisions called formae speciales (singular forma specialis, abbreviated f.sp.). Over 100 formae speciales divisions are identified, each with one or two different races. Each forma specialis within the species are host-specific (i.e. specific to a certain plant) and produce different symptoms:F. oxysporum f. sp. batatas affects sweet potato. The symptoms include leaf chlorosis, stunting, and leaf drop. It is transmitted through the soil and through vascular wounds in plant material.Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. canariensis causes wilt of Canary Island date palm and other propagated palms. The disease is spread through contaminated seed, soil and pruning tools.F. oxysporum f. sp. cubense causes Panama disease on banana. It is found everywhere bananas are grown in Africa, Asia, Central and South America. It attacks banana plants of all ages and spreads mainly through the soil. It causes wilting and yellowing of the leaves.F. oxysporum f. sp. lycopersici causes vascular wilt in tomato. The disease starts out as yellowing and drooping on one side of the plant. Leaf wilting, plant stunting, browning of the vascular system, leaf death and lack of fruit production also occur.F. oxysporum f. sp. melonis attacks muskmelon and cantaloupe. It causes damping-off in seedlings and causes chlorosis, stunting and wilting in old plants. Necrotic streaks can appear on the stems.	 potato Fusarium wilt

Silver scurf is a plant disease of potato, which is caused by the anamorphic ascomycete fungus, Helminthosporium solani. Potato tubers are the only known host of Helminthosporium solani. It is a highly specific pathogen which does not have a secondary host or alternate host. A common symptom of this disease is blemishing on the surface of the potato tubers. These blemishes are tan and/or gray due to a loss of pigment, and they are usually irregularly shaped. Also, a post-harvest symptom can be shrinkage and shriveling of the outer tissue of the potato due to water loss. Black spots can also be found on the surface of infected tubers, which are a sign of the disease. These are made up of conidia and conidiophores of the pathogenic fungus. The conidia are characterized by being very darkly melanized and having multiple pseudosepta. Another characteristic of this fungus is the absence of motile spores.Like with many other fungal plant diseases, a diagnosis can be made by looking for the specific sexual structures of the fungus and observing them for the specific characteristics of silver scurf. Another way that silver scurf can be diagnosed is through molecular techniques, such as PCR and sequencing to identify the presence of the pathogen. The primer pair, HSF19-HSR447, has been generated to be specific for amplifying only a section of Helminthosporium solani DNA.Currently, no known host factors have been identified that have been linked to increase susceptibility or development of the disease. It seems as though the environmental conditions are what plays a major role in severity of the disease.	 potato Helminthosporium solani

The asexual life cycle of Phytophthora infestans is characterized by alternating phases of hyphal growth, sporulation, sporangia germination (either through zoospore release or direct germination, i.e. germ tube emergence from the sporangium), and the re-establishment of hyphal growth. There is also a sexual cycle, which occurs when isolates of opposite mating type (A1 and A2, see § Mating types below) meet. Hormonal communication triggers the formation of the sexual spores, called oospores. The different types of spores play major roles in the dissemination and survival of P. infestans. Sporangia are spread by wind or water and enable the movement of P. infestans  between different host plants. The zoospores released from sporangia are biflagellated and chemotactic, allowing further movement of P. infestans on water films found on leaves or soils. Both sporangia and zoospores are short-lived, in contrast to oospores which can persist in a viable form for many years.People can observe Phytophthora infestans produce dark green, then brown then black spots on the surface of potato leaves and stems, often near the tips or edges, where water or dew collects. The sporangia and sporangiophores appear white on the lower surface of the foliage. As for tuber blight, the white mycelium often shows on the tubers' surface.Under ideal conditions, P. infestans completes its life cycle on potato or tomato foliage in about five days. Sporangia develop on the leaves, spreading through the crop when temperatures are above 10 °C (50 °F) and humidity is over 75–80% for 2 days or more. Rain can wash spores into the soil where they infect young tubers, and the spores can also travel long distances on the wind. The early stages of blight are easily missed. Symptoms include the appearance of dark blotches on leaf tips and plant stems. White mold will appear under the leaves in humid conditions and the whole plant may quickly collapse. Infected tubers develop grey or dark patches that are reddish brown beneath the skin, and quickly decay to a foul-smelling mush caused by the infestation of secondary soft bacterial rots. Seemingly healthy tubers may rot later when in store.P. infestans survives poorly in nature apart from on its plant hosts. Under most conditions, the hyphae and asexual sporangia can survive for only brief periods in plant debris or soil, and are generally killed off during frosts or very warm weather. The exceptions involve oospores, and hyphae present within tubers. The persistence of viable pathogen within tubers, such as those that are left in the ground after the previous year's harvest or left in cull piles is a major problem in disease management. In particular, volunteer plants sprouting from infected tubers are thought to be a major source of inoculum (or propagules) at the start of a growing season. This can have devastating effects by destroying entire crops.	 potato Late blight

One of the most harmful seed and soil borne pathogens, Macrophomina phaseolina is a fungus that infects nearly 500 plant species in more than 100 families. The hosts include: peanut, cabbage, pepper, chickpea, soybean, sunflower, sweet potato, alfalfa, sesame, potato, sorghum, wheat, and corn, among others. The identification of isolates of M. phaseolina is usually based on morphology and efforts to divide the pathogen into subspecies, but because there are wide intraspecific variations in the phenotype of the isolates, these criteria are often not reliable. The failure to correctly detect and identify M. phaseolina using conventional culture-based morphological techniques has led scientists to develop nucleic acid-based molecular approaches, such as highly sensitive and specific polymerase chain reaction-based methods. Researchers have also recently created species-specific oligonucleotide primers and digoxigenin-labeled probes in hopes of better identifying and detecting M. phaseolina.The pathogen M. phaseolina affects the fibrovascular system of the roots and basal internodes of its host, impeding the transport of water and nutrients to the upper parts of the plant. As a result, progressive wilting, premature dying, loss of vigor, and reduced yield are characteristic symptoms of M. phaseolina infection. The fungus also causes many diseases like damping off, seedling blight, collar rot, stem rot, charcoal rot, basal stem rot, and root rot. Although brown lesions may form on the hypocotyls or emerging seedlings, many symptoms occur during or after flowering, including grey discoloration of the stem and taproots, shredding of plant tissue in the stem and top of the taproot, and hollowing of the stem. Small black dots may form beneath the epidermis of the lower stem and in the taproot, giving the stems and roots a charcoal-sprinkled appearance. When the epidermis is removed, small and black microsclerotia (a sign of the disease) may be so numerous that they give a greyish-black tint to the plant tissue. In addition, reddish-brown discoloration and black streaks can form in the pith and vascular tissues of the root and stem.	 potato Macrophomina phaseolina

Meloidogyne hapla (Northern root-knot nematode) has a wide host range. It is polyphagous and affects over 550 crops and weeds. It feeds on many agricultural and horticultural plants (vegetables, fruits, ornamentals), but few grasses or cereals. A list of known hosts can be found at the bottom of this page.Symptoms can be seen in the roots, leaves, and the overall growth of the infected plant. In roots, there may be stunting, wilting, and the formation of abnormal growths called galls. Galls are usually small and spherical and are situated near many small roots. They are formed when the nematode enters the root and releases chemicals to enlarge root cells, on which they feed. The roots become defective and therefore cannot transport water and nutrients properly. The end result is stunted, wilted, and yellowing plants (characteristic of nutrient deficiency) and a decreased yield. Severity of the symptoms depends on nematode population density and host plant species and cultivar. As the number of nematodes increase in the area, the number and size of root galls increase as well. Each crop responds to Meloidogyne hapla differently. Carrots typically undergo severe forking with galling of the roots, lettuce have beadlike galls, and grasses and onions have small and barely noticeable galls and symptoms. In potato tubers (special stems), brown spots will appear on areas of the tubers where the females have laid their eggs.If a field has a patchy distribution of symptoms, it usually indicates the presence of nematodes. Most nematodes are not usually distributed uniformly in the soil. To correctly identify Meloidogyne hapla, the infected plant should be sent to a lab for a proper diagnosis. One common method is perineal pattern analysis where the perineum of the female nematode (area between the anus and the vulva) is examined for a specific pattern in ridges and annulations. Another common method is analyzing isozyme (different variations of the same enzyme produced by different genes) electrophoretic profiles using esterase and malate dehydrogenase.	 potato Meloidogyne hapla

Plants affected by M. incognita present above ground symptoms of water- and nutrient-stress, yellowing, wilting, and stunting. Below ground galling on roots, bulbs, tubers is the typical symptom. Plant death may occur in high infestation level.	 potato Meloidogyne incognita

Because there are so many different hosts for this pathogen, the symptoms are very variable. Common symptoms include abnormal leaf color, abnormal leaf form, wilting leaves, galls, swollen roots, reduced root system, dwarfing and senescence (Cabi 2018). This pathogen does the most damage when present in light soils with hot weather conditions (Alford 2012).	 potato Meloidogyne javanica

D. dadantii is phytopathogenic bacterium causing soft rot diseases on many host plants including some which are economically important. D. dadantii, more commonly known as: soft rot, brown rot or blackleg, causes characteristic symptoms associated with other bacterial wilts, causing final diagnosis to be difficult. The pathogen primarily seeks to attack the plant's xylem vessels located in leaves, stems, blossoms and storage organs of herbaceous plants. D. dadantii is able to infect hosts at any point in its life cycle. In addition to symptoms of wilt, the disease appears as sunken and cracked external lesions also having a brown interior in cross section in subterranean bulbs and tubers Diseased plants will display a variety of symptoms including: wilting, stunting and vascular discoloration of the stems. Early symptoms include water soaked lesions at the site of infection, gradually expanding chlorotic leaves and loss of turgor in tissues. The intensity of D. dadantii colonization relates to the amount of disease and degree of damage. The pathogen is very successful at infiltrating host tissues due to the many pectinases responsible for disassembly of plant cell wall polysaccharides. Once the cell wall is degraded cellular structure collapses and this cell maceration gives a characteristic "water-soaked" or rotted appearance. D. dadantii grow intercellularly, continuing to degrade cells and colonize, until it eventually reaches xylem tissues. Upon reaching the xylem vessels D. dadantii possesses the ability to spread to new regions of the host and other areas may begin to display symptoms. Colonization within the xylem restricts flow of water causing loss of turgor pressure and wilting of foliage and stems. Restricted movement of important plant compounds eventually lead to death of the host.	 potato Pectobacterium chrysanthemi

This species is reported to be pathogenic on grandiflora petunia (Petunia × atkinsiana). It causes root rot, shoot rot and shanking in tulips. It also infects blue daze (Evolvulus glomeratus), dusty miller (Jacobaea maritima), Barberton daisy (Gerbera jamesonii), and garden verbena (Verbena × hybrida). Like its relative Phytophtora cambivora, it can cause ink disease of chestnuts (Castanea sativa).The species is a cause of foot rot in tomatoes, causing discoloration and lesion in the stem. Progression of lesions leads to girdling, root system rot and plant collapse. Foliage will not be affected until plant stem has become girdled.	 potato Phytophthora cryptogea

P. erythroseptica is host specific, and typically only infects potatoes in moist soils. However, there are related pink rot species that infect raspberries, tomatoes, clover, and asparagus. Symptoms of the disease in potatoes can be seen on the tubers, above ground vegetation, as well as the roots of the potatoes. Tuber symptoms are the most obvious to diagnose. Occasionally, a darkened color can be observed on the skin covering the infected portion of the tuber. When a suspected tuber is cut open, a dividing line can be seen between the healthy tuber tissue and the infected tissue. Infection spreads from the stolon end of tubers and usually leads to a rubbery or spongy consistency. Pink rot is not considered a slimy soft rot, since most of the tissue stays intact The pinkish-salmon color of infected tubers can be seen once the phenolic compounds inside the tubers are exposed to oxygen for 15–30 minutes. After this time period the infected tissue turns to a brownish-blackish color  Aboveground symptoms can include chlorosis, stunting, and wilting of the plants. Roots and stolons can become blackened as well. The pink color is often used as the main symptom when making a firm diagnosis. The infected tubers often are watery and have a distinct smell. The potatoes plants themselves can sometimes be wilted however most symptoms are seen on the tuber. The majority of diseased tubers get infected while in storage. The majority of symptoms are seen inside the tuber except for the rubbery appearance that the outside may have. There are often cases that show symptoms other than rotting, these are often due to a pathogen other than P. erythroseptica infecting the tuber along with pink rot.	 potato Phytophthora erythroseptica

The asexual life cycle of Phytophthora infestans is characterized by alternating phases of hyphal growth, sporulation, sporangia germination (either through zoospore release or direct germination, i.e. germ tube emergence from the sporangium), and the re-establishment of hyphal growth. There is also a sexual cycle, which occurs when isolates of opposite mating type (A1 and A2, see § Mating types below) meet. Hormonal communication triggers the formation of the sexual spores, called oospores. The different types of spores play major roles in the dissemination and survival of P. infestans. Sporangia are spread by wind or water and enable the movement of P. infestans  between different host plants. The zoospores released from sporangia are biflagellated and chemotactic, allowing further movement of P. infestans on water films found on leaves or soils. Both sporangia and zoospores are short-lived, in contrast to oospores which can persist in a viable form for many years.People can observe Phytophthora infestans produce dark green, then brown then black spots on the surface of potato leaves and stems, often near the tips or edges, where water or dew collects. The sporangia and sporangiophores appear white on the lower surface of the foliage. As for tuber blight, the white mycelium often shows on the tubers' surface.Under ideal conditions, P. infestans completes its life cycle on potato or tomato foliage in about five days. Sporangia develop on the leaves, spreading through the crop when temperatures are above 10 °C (50 °F) and humidity is over 75–80% for 2 days or more. Rain can wash spores into the soil where they infect young tubers, and the spores can also travel long distances on the wind. The early stages of blight are easily missed. Symptoms include the appearance of dark blotches on leaf tips and plant stems. White mold will appear under the leaves in humid conditions and the whole plant may quickly collapse. Infected tubers develop grey or dark patches that are reddish brown beneath the skin, and quickly decay to a foul-smelling mush caused by the infestation of secondary soft bacterial rots. Seemingly healthy tubers may rot later when in store.P. infestans survives poorly in nature apart from on its plant hosts. Under most conditions, the hyphae and asexual sporangia can survive for only brief periods in plant debris or soil, and are generally killed off during frosts or very warm weather. The exceptions involve oospores, and hyphae present within tubers. The persistence of viable pathogen within tubers, such as those that are left in the ground after the previous year's harvest or left in cull piles is a major problem in disease management. In particular, volunteer plants sprouting from infected tubers are thought to be a major source of inoculum (or propagules) at the start of a growing season. This can have devastating effects by destroying entire crops.	 potato Phytophthora infestans

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 potato Phytophthora nicotianae var. parasitica

PLRV infects members of the family Solanaceae. The most economically important host is the Potato, Solanum tuberosum spp. In potato, symptoms of primary infection, infection in the growing season, occurs in the youngest leaves. Leaf margins become necrotic, turning brown and purplish and curl inwards towards the center of the leaf. Secondary infection, which starts from infected potato culls, produces more severe symptoms. Leaf rolling is more apparent and the entire leaf can become chlorotic and sometimes also has a purple discoloration. Necrosis of the phloem tissue particularly in the haulm is observed after onset of symptoms.  Plants infected with PLRV experience stunted growth and produce smaller tubers. Infected tubers retain normal shape but experience necrosis of the vascular tissue. Necrosis of the tuber may not be apparent at harvest and can develop in storage. This usually appears as small brown spots scattered throughout the tissue.Net necrosis of potato is the result of infection by potato leaf roll virus (PLRV). This symptom is caused by the selective death and damage to cells in the vascular tissues of the tuber. The fact that only specific cells within the tuber are affected by this problem while others remain normal causes the characteristic net symptom. Infection by the virus may directly cause the damage to and death of the vascular tissues or the presence of the virus may make these sensitive tissues more susceptible to damage from other stresses. There is a strong resemblance between PLRV net necrosis and another tuber defect known as stem end discoloration (SED). Unlike PLRV, SED is believed to be a physiological disorder.The virus itself is an extremely small, nearly spherical particle with a diameter of 25 nanometres. It can be spread by several aphid species that colonize potato, with the green peach aphid being the most efficient. The insect vector is absolutely essential to spread because mechanical transmission, like that which occurs when the leaves of an infected plant rub on a healthy one, does not occur with PLRV. The infection process is actually quite complicated with this virus. First the aphid must acquire the virus by feeding on a PLRV infected plant. Then the virus must circulate from the gut of the aphid, through the circulatory system until it finally gets into the salivary glands, from which it can be excreted when the aphid feeds on healthy plants. Only after this has happened can the aphid spread the virus. This sequence of events may require 24 hr. or more to occur. Unfortunately, once an aphid becomes infected, it remains so for the rest of its life. Spread of the virus between plants within a field and between fields can be done by the winged forms of the aphid but most spread within a field, especially from infected plants to nearby, healthy ones, is accomplished by the wingless forms.Seed certification programs allow only a very small level of PLRV in certified seed. In Idaho, for instance, during the second field inspection the allowable amount of PLRV is only 0.05% for G4 seed, 0.01% for G3 and G2 and none at all allowed in nuclear and G1. Very small percentages of PLRV in seed potatoes do not normally pose any risk for the commercial producer. However, even very small percentages of virus can be a problem if green peach aphids appear very early and in abundance. In years that are very favorable for insects, like the 1996 season was, the aphid population can become so large that even a very low percentage of PLRV infected seed could result in sufficient spread to cause a problem, because as the aphid population increases, so does the probability that they will encounter an infected plant. Control of aphids with insecticide application is the only means of managing this problem in production years that are highly favorable for aphids.Seed borne infection generally results in small, stunted, badly impaired plants which have reduced yield both in tuber numbers and in tuber size. Large tubers that show the typical net necrosis symptom may well be the result of current season infection.PLRV infects other hosts including moonflower, Datura stramonium causing interveinal necrosis and hairy nightshade, Solanum villosum causing chlorosis, leafroll and leathery texture of leaves.   Husk tomato, Physalis floridana symptoms include chlorosis, rolling of the leaves and stunting. PLRV infects many other plants in the family Solanacea and can also infect some non-solanaceous plants.Because of the wide array of symptoms that occur in different hosts, diagnosis of PLRV must be done based on the infected species. In potatoes PLRV is diagnosed by stunting and leafroll. Diagnosis of other species mentioned previously is by the above-mentioned symptoms. PLRV can be detected on site using PLRV AgriStrip-magnetic. This lateral flow test uses microbeads coated with an anti-body specific to PLRV. Virus particles are separated from the plant tissue using a powerful magnet. The PLRV AgriStrip-magnetic can detect low titers that were previously thought to be too low for traditional lateral flow tests.	 potato Potato leafroll virus

As the name implies, the main host is potato; however, this virus also affects some common vegetable plants and weeds. Some of them include tomato, black nightshade, lambsquarters and ground cherry. The potato mop top virus' primary hosts are plants in the Solanaceae and Chenopodiaceae. Potatoes that are infected by PMTV generally show hollow necrotic spots on the inside. This virus shows different symptoms in Europe; for example, the infected plants usually show dark brown necrotic arcs that discolor the tuber's flesh (these symptoms are very similar to those caused by alfalfa mosaic virus). Plants showing no symptoms of PMTV  tend to produce larger quantities of infected tubers if they are derived from plants that have shown foliar symptoms in the previous year.	 potato Potato mop-top virus

PVY belongs to the genus Potyvirus, the largest genus of plant viruses and possibly the most destructive one in potato crops. The genus includes more than 200 species that bring about significant losses in the agricultural arena. PVY infects many economically important plant species. These include potato (Solanum tuberosum), tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum), tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) and pepper (Capsicum spp.). The level of damage to crop is determined by the strain of PVY infecting the plants, the viral load, the time at which infection occurs as well as the tolerance the host possesses toward the virus. Resistance to PVY infection by hosts is low in many cases. Infection of a potato field with PVY may ultimately result in 10-100% loss in yield.It has been shown that the PVY has different isolates according to the symptoms they induce in various potato plant species. Extensive biological, serological and molecular variability of PVY isolates makes the classification of isolates as particular strains particularly difficult. Occurrence of a variety of symptoms and the emergence of the necrotic PVYNTN has led to a search for more reliable classification tools than simple serological identification. Traditionally three chief strains of PVY are recognized: PVYC, PVYN and PVYO. PVYC, originally known as Potato Virus C, was the first to be recognized and was identified in the 1930s. PVYC induces hypersensitive responses in a wide range of potato cultivars. These reactions include the formation of mild mosaic patterns or stipple streak. Unlike the other strains of PVY, some PVYC strains are non-aphid transmissible. Previous studies by Visser et al. did not identify any of the local isolates as being PVYC but it has been reported to occur to in South Africa. A second strain of PVY is PVYN. This strain was described in tobacco plants growing close to potato plants. PVYN results in leaf necrosis and mild or even no damage to the tubers. The ordinary strain of PVY is denoted as PVYO. Infection of a potato plant with the PVYO strain results in mild tuber damage and does not cause leaf necrosis. Both PVYN and PVYO are aphid transmissible and occur in South Africa. In Europe these two strains have been shown to have recombined to form PVYNTN. The PVYNTN has been accredited with the ability to induce potato tuber necrotic ringspot disease (PTNRD). Tubers damaged by PTNRD become unmarketable and infection by PVYNTN thus results in a larger economic impact than infection by the other strains.	 potato Potato virus Y

Root lesion nematodes infect a great variety of hosts. Pratylenchus penetrans alone has over 350 host plants. They include agricultural crops such as soybeans, potatoes, corn, bananas, and wheat. The genus is found most often in corn. Signs of disease are similar in most plants and generally include necrotic lesions of the roots. The lesions can also be entrances for pathogenic bacteria and fungi, which produce secondary infections. Above ground the plant becomes stunted, chlorotic, and wilted, and it often dies. A crop field may be patchy as plants wither and die. Root lesion nematodes can cause significant yield losses.	 potato Pratylenchus

Root lesion nematode has a wide host range, including hosts like apple, cherry, conifers, roses, tomato, potato, corn, onion and sugarbeets, and ornamentals such as Narcissus. More than 164 hosts for P. penetrans have been recorded.  In the host range there are some hosts that are susceptible, such as wheat, oat, field pea, faba bean, and chickpea, and some that are moderately susceptible, such as barley and canola.Some general symptoms that are produced on infected plants include poor growth, fruit spot, and chlorotic foliage.  These secondary symptoms are often due to plant root stress.  These make it rather difficult to diagnose nematode diseases in general.  The roots when infected produce necrotic lesions, which are darkened areas of dead tissue, on the surface and throughout the cortex of the infected roots.  These lesions turn the root to reddish-brown to black and are initially spotty.  As the nematode continues to feed, the lesions can coalesce to become large necrotic areas of tissue that may eventually girdle the root. The population size of the nematode affects the degree of symptoms.  Low to moderate populations may cause no visible above ground symptoms, while high populations can lead to stunting, nutrient and water deficiencies, and eventual die-back of the plant.  On potato, infection of root lesion nematode can cause a secondary invasion by Verticillium dahliae leading to Potato Early Dying.  Onions are another important host of P. penetrans.  Onions are an important vegetable for consumption in the United States and upon infection the nematodes can limit yield and quality of the bulbs.  Populations of more than 0.01 nematode per cubic centimeter of soil resulted in injury to onions.  There is a negative relationship between the increasing inoculum levels on onion root and top fresh weight at harvest.	 potato Pratylenchus penetrans

Pythium aphanidermatum is responsible for pre- and post-emergence damping off.  Pre-emergence damping off is when the seed is infected prior to germination.  This can result in poor or no germination, and is observable as a browning or rotting of the seed.  Post-emergence damping off takes place after germination and results in a thinning, water-soaked stem near the plant collar, which eventually causes the collapse of the plant.  P. aphanidermatum can also cause root rot.  Symptoms of root rot include stunted growth, chlorotic leaves, leaf drop, and wilting.  The infection begins at the root tip, and can cause the infected region to lose its protective outer layer, exposing the inner root to other pathogens	 potato Pythium aphanidermatum

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 potato Rhizoctonia solani

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 potato Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

Hosts of Septoria malagutii include: potatoes and other tuber-bearing Solanum spp.; however, tomatoes can be infected by artificial inoculation. The disease is found in a series of ‘tuberosa’ in the Andes mountains of Ecuador, Peru, and Venezuela at elevations reaching above 3000m.Septoria malagutii is a deuteromycete; therefore, the fungi does not have a true sexual stage or the sexual stage is extremely uncommon. Consequently, the fungi reproduces asexually via its conidiomata, pycnidia. The pycnidia are an asexual flask shaped fruiting body that produces conidia via mitosis. Above ground parts of the potato become infected by the conidia (pycnidiospores) in a variety of natural ways such as rainy or windy conditions. Signs and symptoms of the disease are easily observable on the upper side of infected leaves where small, dark brown, and round necrotic lesions ranging in size from 1-5mm are formed. The lesions exhibit pronounced concentric ridges with 1 to 3 erumpent black pycnidia within the central ring. Other symptoms on the leaves include: the lesions often fusing together to create large necrotic areas, making the leaves brittle and susceptible to leaf drop or wind damage. Additionally, the stems can become discolored and resemble bark and the whole plant can exhibit dwarfing, early senescence, and dieback. Stem lesions are more elongated than leaf lesions reaching up to 15mm in length and 2mm in diameter. Furthermore, there has been no report on the underground plant parts, such as roots and tubers, having been affected by the pathogen. Potato is known to be the only naturally cultivated host and infection is limited to the leaves of potato plants under natural circumstances; and, fertile formation of pycnidia on living leaves has not been observed. Lastly, the prevalence of resistance in varying cultivars is low, ranging from moderately resistant to very resistant, but it is uncertain how long the pathogen can survive in the infected host debris in soil.	 potato Septoria lycopersici var. malagutii

Like other plant pathogenic viruses, TMV has a very wide host range and has different effects depending on the host being infected. Tobacco mosaic virus has been known to cause a production loss for flue cured tobacco of up to two percent in North Carolina. It is known to infect members of nine plant families, and at least 125 individual species, including tobacco, tomato, pepper (all members of the useful Solanaceae), cucumbers, a number of ornamental flowers, and beans including Phaseolus vulgaris and Vigna unguiculata. There are many different strains. The first symptom of this virus disease is a light green coloration between the veins of young leaves. This is followed quickly by the development of a "mosaic" or mottled pattern of light and dark green areas in the leaves. Rugosity may also be seen where the infected plant leaves display small localized random wrinkles. These symptoms develop quickly and are more pronounced on younger leaves. Its infection does not result in plant death, but if infection occurs early in the season, plants are stunted. Lower leaves are subjected to "mosaic burn"  especially during periods of hot and dry weather. In these cases, large dead areas develop in the leaves. This constitutes one of the most destructive phases of Tobacco mosaic virus infection. Infected leaves may be crinkled, puckered, or elongated. However, if TMV infects crops like grape and apple, it is almost symptomless. TMV is able  to infect and complete its replication cycle in a plant pathogenic fungus,TMV is able to enter and replicate in cells of C. acutatum, C. clavatum, and C. theobromicola, which may not be an exception, although it has neither been found nor probably searched for in nature.	 potato Tobacco mosaic virus

Tobacco necrosis virus (TNV) can thrive on a handful of viable hosts. These hosts include tobacco, zucchini, cucumbers, carrots, French bean, tomatoes, potatoes, and tulips. There are a variety of symptoms that are dependent on the host species. In infected plants, abnormal coloring or necrotic tissue in the leaves may occur and roots may have lesions. If bark is present on the plant, it may become discolored. Fruit or tubers can become covered with sunken and discolored spots and can be smaller overall. On a whole-plant scale, damping off or early dying may occur.	 potato Tobacco necrosis virus

Boning  first discovered Tobacco Rattle Virus in 1931 in Germany.  It was discovered in Nicotiana tabacum, which is a species of cultivated tobacco.   Tobacco Rattle Virus is common and potentially serious in a variety of herbaceous ornamentals including, but not limited to, astilbe, bleeding heart, coral bells, daffodil, epimedium, gladiolus, hyacinth, marigold, tulip and vinca.  Tobacco rattle can also affect vegetable crops such as beans, beets, peppers, potatoes, and spinach.  On potatoes, the disease is referred to as corky ring spot. The disease corky ringspot of potatoes was first reported in the United States in 1946, and was identified incorrectly as a novel virus until advances in genetics demonstrated it to be the result of TRV.Symptoms of Tobacco Rattle Virus vary based on the plant host, which differs widely in this disease.  Common symptoms include mottling, chlorotic or necrotic local lesion, ringspots or line patterns, and systemic necrosis.	 potato Tobacco rattle virus

TSV has been reported worldwide in North and South America, Europe, India, Japan, Australia, New Zealand and South America. TSV has a wide host range including both monocots and dicots.  Economically important crop hosts include peanuts, sunflower, soybean, cranberry, cotton, chickpea and mung beans.  As with many plant viruses, diagnosis is very difficult because TSV has very wide host range and has different effects depending on the host being infected. Symptoms of TSV may include black streaks on stems and leaves, stunted growth, chlorosis, leaf mosaic, lodging, and deformed growing tips, to name a few. On tobacco plants, TSV causes chlorosis, with a unique pattern of white or dark necrotic leaf tissue close to the veins of the leaf.  As its name implies, necrotic streaks are found on leaf veins of infected plants.  Symptoms are strongly influenced by temperature.  For example, plants experiencing a temperature of 20° Celsius will develop small necrotic spots while at temperatures above 30° Celsius, necrotic spots will become large necrotic arcs. Symptoms are not sufficient to correctly identify TSV - serology and PCR techniques are required.	 potato Tobacco streak virus

The foliage of affected tomato plants shows mottling, with alternating yellowish and darker green areas, the latter often appearing thicker and raised giving a blister-like appearance. The leaves tend to be fern-like in appearance with pointed tips and younger leaves may be twisted. The fruit may be distorted, yellow blotches and necrotic spots may occur on both ripe and green fruit and there may be internal browning of the fruit wall. In young plants, the infection reduces the set of fruit and may cause distortions and blemishes. The entire plant may be dwarfed and the flowers discoloured. Environmental conditions influence the symptoms. These include temperature, day length and light intensity as well as the variety, the age of the plant at infection and the virulence of the strain of ToMV.	 potato Tomato mosaic virus

TSWV infects a variety of hosts, contributing to its global economic impact on crops. There are over a thousand different hosts for TSWV. The host range of TSWV includes agronomically important crops like tomatoes and tobacco. The symptoms of TSWV vary from host to host. There is also variability of symptoms within a single type of host due to the age of the plant, nutrition and the environment (especially temperature). Common symptoms include stunting, ringspots on fruit and necrosis of leaves. There are many different strains of TSWV, and differences in symptoms may also be attributed to the differences in the number of strains present.	 potato Tomato spotted wilt virus

There are many strains of Verticillium dahliae which are categorized into vegetative compatibility groups (VCG). These groups comprise strains that are able to exchange genetic material via anastomosis. Each VCG affects a few or only one host and the virulence of the pathogen varies by host. While individual V. dahliae strains are relatively host specific, as a species it has a wide range.Verticillium dahliae has a very wide host range, affecting over 300 plant species. Some susceptible crops include Brussels sprouts, cabbage, eggplant, cucumbers, mint, pepper, potatoes, pumpkin, spinach, tomato, watermelon, honeydew, and cantaloupe. Of these, tomato, potato, and eggplant have resistant or tolerant varieties.Symptoms of this disease are seen throughout the plant. Leaves may have abnormal coloration, necrotic areas, wilt, and/or fall off the plant. The stem may have discolored vascular tissue, exhibit rosetting (shortened internodes of the plant caused by reduced growth, resulting in a rosette-like appearance), and/or be stunted. Early senescence and dieback may also occur.Microsclerotia can be seen under a lens as small black structures in the vasculature of living and dead plants. This feature can be used to distinguish V. dahliae from V. albo-atrum, the other verticillium wilt pathogen.	 potato Verticillium dahliae

Verticillium spp. attack a very large host range including more than 350 species of vegetables, fruit trees, flowers, field crops, and shade or forest trees.  Most vegetable species have some susceptibility, so it has a very wide host range.  A list of known hosts is at the bottom of this page.The signs are similar to most wilts with a few specifics to Verticillium.  Wilt itself is the most common sign, with wilting of the stem and leaves occurring due to the blockage of the xylem vascular tissues and therefore reduced water and nutrient flow.  In small plants and seedlings, Verticillium can quickly kill the plant while in larger, more developed plants the severity can vary.  Some times only one side of the plant will appear infected because once in the vascular tissues, the disease migrates mostly upward and not as much radially in the stem.  Other symptoms include stunting, chlorosis or yellowing of the leaves, necrosis or tissue death, and defoliation.  Internal vascular tissue discoloration might be visible when the stem is cut.In Verticillium, the signs and effects will often only be on the lower or outer parts of plants or will be localized to only a few branches of a tree.  In older plants, the infection can cause death, but often, especially with trees, the plant will be able to recover, or at least continue living with the infection.  The severity of the infection plays a large role in how severe the signs are and how quickly they develop.	 potato Verticillium wilt

In fields, symptomatic plants are recognized in patches or rows.  They appear dwarfed, stunted, and brown in comparison to healthy plants. Local symptoms appear above ground, and plant leaves are typically distorted in shape, crinkled, and discolored with hard surfaces. They often have reduced flower size. Diseased plants typically have dead crowns and a shortened internode of the runners.A classic leaf symptom is the appearance of angular, water-soaked lesions between the veins.  The angular appearance results where the lesion edge and vein meet. In leaves with parallel venation, the length of the lesion progresses parallel to the direction of the vein.  As lesions enlarge and leaf damage progresses, symptomatic leaf edges become dry, dead, and crinkled. Because infected strawberry plants are less vigorous in growth, the stolon does not grow well, which results in reduced fruit size and number.  If the nematodes infect early in plant development, specifically when the buds are forming, the plant morphology will be dwarfed and distorted.Once the nematodes destroy most of the leaf tissue, they leave the plant through wounds and natural openings in the leaf to find a new host to infect. The pathogen is easily transmitted through direct contact between the foliage of infected and non-infected plants.  Nematodes can also move over large distances through soil transportation, as a result of human and animal movement, or through insect and bird travel.	 primula Aphelenchoides fragariae

A. ritezmabosi has a wide host range of almost 200 plant species, and is an important disease in chrysanthemum and other ornamentals.  Other ornamental hosts of A. ritzemabosi are anemones, asters, carnations, Chinaster, cinerarias, coneflowers,crassulas, creeping bellflower, dahlias, delphiniums, elders, lupines, monkeyflower, phlox,pouchflower, rhododendrons, sages, Siberian wallflower, water peperomia, and zinnias.A common symptom of A. ritezmabosi is seen when the nematode is feeding in the foliar tissue.  Angular lesions are formed, which are chlorotic at first then turn necrotic as the feeding persists.  A sign that an A. ritzeambosi nematode is feeding in the bud of a plant is brown scars on the bud and surrounding tissue.  The nematode also produces secretions that have the ability to cause several other symptoms in infested plants including shortening of inter-nodes, creating a bushy appearance, browning and failure of the shoot to grow, as well as distorted leaf formation.	 primula Aphelenchoides ritzemabosi

Aster yellows affects a long list of plant species including native plants, annual flowering plants, ornamentals, weeds, and vegetables crops. The largest family affected is the Asteraceae, and ornamental plants commonly infected are asters, marigolds, coreopsis, sunflowers, and purple coneflower.  Regarding vegetable crops, onion, lettuce, celery, and carrot are affected with the latter suffering the greatest losses.The range of characteristic symptoms varies by the phytoplasma strain, timing of infection, plant species, temperature, age, and size of the plant. The symptoms can be mistaken for herbicide damage or virus symptoms.  They include vein clearing until the entire leaf becomes chlorotic, stunting, deformation, virescence (greening of flowers), phyllody (development of leaf-like flower petals), reddening of foliage, reduced root system, and sterility.  Aster yellows does not typically kill perennial host plants. The symptoms caused by the disease are exacerbated by hot climates while some plants in cooler climates may be asymptomatic.Characteristic symptoms specific to the carrot include initial vein clearing and chlorosis, followed by production of many adventitious shoots, with the tops looking like a witches’-broom.  The internodes of such shoots are short as are the leaf petioles.  Young leaves are smaller and dry up while the petioles of older leaves twist and break off.  Any remaining older leaves turn bronze or red late in the season.  Floral parts are deformed and roots are smaller, abnormally shaped, and have woolly secondary roots.  The carrot roots are predisposed to soft rots in the field and storage and taste unpleasant to the consumer.	 primula Aster yellows

There are a variety of hosts including but not limited to; banana, beans, cabbage, carrot, cassava, coffee, corn, cotton, onion, other crucifers, pepper, potato, sweet potato and tomato. Pandanus conoideus and karuka (Pandanus julianettii) get bacterial soft rot and necrosis on the leaves from Pectobacterium carotovorum subsp. carotovorum. For each host there are different symptoms displayed. Most symptoms are along the lines of watery and soft decay of the tissue. Cabbage and crucifers' symptoms start where the tissue makes contact with the soil. Often there is a change in color and in the case of a carrot, the whole taproot can be decayed leaving just the epidermis. Sweet potatoes show clear lesions that grow rapidly leaving a recognizable watery and soft, oozy tissue where only the peel remains intact.Potatoes experience a cream to tan colored tuber that becomes very soft and watery. A characteristic black border separates the diseased area and the healthy tissue. Only when the secondary organism invades the infected tissue does that decay become slimy with a foul odor. Like the carrot, the whole tuber can be consumed leaving just the epidermis in the soil. The foliage becomes weak and chlorotic with upward turned leaves and lesions on the stem. The stem also rots and becomes mushy with its colorless or brown lesions.	 primula Bacterial soft rot

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 primula Colletotrichum gloeosporioides

This virus was first characterized in cucumbers (Cucumis sativus) showing mosaic symptoms in 1934, hence the name Cucumber mosaic. Since then, it has been found to infect a great variety of other plants. These include other vegetables such as squash, melons, peppers, eggplants, tomatoes, beans, carrots, celery, lettuce, spinach, beets, many ornamentals and bedding plants, such as Narcissus, and various weeds. Its presence has been confirmed on every continent of the world, including Antarctica.Symptoms seen with this virus include leaf mosaic or mottling (Fig. 1), yellowing, ringspots, stunting, and leaf, flower and fruit distortion. CMV also induces a type of symptom on leaves known as the "shoestring" effect on many host species. This effect causes young leaves to appear narrow and the entire plant to be stunted.Specifically, CMV can cause cucumbers to turn pale and bumpy. The leaves of these plants turn mosaic and their rugosity is often changed, making leaves wrinkled and misshapen. Growth of these plants is usually also stunted and produces few flowers. Often, cucumber fruits are oddly shaped, appear gray, and tested bitter. These appearances lead to them being referred to as "white pickles".Tomato plants are usually stunted and have poorly shaped leaves, or "fernleaf", when infected by CMV. Also certain strains of CMV can cause partial or total crop loss. CMV in peppers causes slightly different symptoms than the previously mentioned. Pepper plants often have severe foliar damage, shown as mosaic and necrotic rings. Often the peppers themselves are misshapen and contain chlorotic rings and spots. In celery, CMV causes streaking and spotting and can be often confused with symptoms of the celery mosaic virus. Symptoms of CMV in lettuce, such as chlorosis, plant stunting and often do not properly head, can be very similar to those of lettuce mosaic virus.CMV has also been identified in a lesser extent to a number of plant species. It is found to be a minor virus infecting Allium crops. The virus infection causes extensive malformation on garlic plants, and mild malformation to severe necrotic streaks on onion leaves. The severe damages on garlic plants and difficulty of aphids transmission of garlic isolate, were possible causal for the rare CMV on garlic. Genetically, the two onion isolates from Turkey (CMV-14.3Po and CMV-15.5Po) are highly similar to others isolated from various plant species in Mediterranean, European, and East Asian countries. CMV was also detected on American beautyberry, an important wildlife and pollinator food source plant native to North America.In plant tissue this virus makes characteristic viral inclusion bodies which can be diagnostic. They are hexagonal in shape (Fig. 2) and stain both in a protein stain and a nucleic acid stain. The inclusions can also be rhomboidal, may appear hollow (Fig. 2) and can form larger aggregates. The inclusions are not uniformly distributed and can be found in epidermal (Fig. 2), mesophyll, and stomatal cells. These inclusions are made up of virus particles.			 primula Cucumber mosaic virus

D. dipsaci has an extensive host range. Major damage occurs in garlic, onion, carrot, fava bean, alfalfa, oats, and strawberry. Ornamental plants can also be infected including hyacinth and tulip. It is estimated that this pathogen infects 400–500 plant species worldwide.In Allium species (onions, garlic, and leeks), infected plants show characteristic symptoms including stunted growth, yellow spots, leaf curl, and foliage lesions. Stems often have swollen regions called “spikkles.” As adult nematodes migrate into the scales of the bulb, and the scales become soft, grey, and loosely packed. Highly infected bulbs can also split apart or show malformed bloating. The leaves of the plant become flaccid and may collapse. This can lead to defoliated plants. Garlic shows similar symptoms of leaf yellowing and stunted bulbs. When harvested, the infected garlic may be missing portions of the root system.In fava beans (Vicia faba), symptoms of infection include reddish-brown stem lesions that can turn black. Young bean pods are dark-brown. Infected seeds are smaller and distorted compared to healthy beans. Speckles and spots are also commonly seen on infected fava beans.Up to 30 biological races occur within D. dipsaci that are mostly distinguished by their host preferences. Very little morphological differences are seen between the races which makes diagnosis difficult. Seed material samples from infected plants can be dissected and viewed under a microscope to confirm the correct race.	 primula Ditylenchus dipsaci

Symptoms appear as dirty white, circular, floury patches on either sides of the leaves.Under favourable environmental conditions, entire leaves, stems, floral parts and pods are affected.The whole leaf may be covered with powdery mass.If persistent, mild chlorosis or necrosis can also occur.	 primula Erysiphe polygoni

INSV has a wide host range and can be found in over 300 plant species including weeds, fruits, vegetables and ornamental crops. Of these, the most severely affected include tomatoes, lettuce, pepper and peppermint as well as most all ornamentals. Symptoms of infection include a downward curling of the leaves, leaf tip dieback, stunting, necrosis of growing leaf tips, sunken ‘chicken pox-like’ spots on leaves (often with a surrounding halo), stem death and yellowing.  Since these symptoms are so generic, extreme caution must be taken when introducing new plants to your greenhouse. Infected plants can not be cured and not all hosts display visible symptoms Western Flower Thrips are extremely hard to remove from their host plants, as they often dig themselves deep into blossoms, buds and other areas hard to reach with insecticides. So, even if plants are sprayed regularly with insecticide, INSV and other insect vectored viruses can not always be ruled out when forming diagnosis.Temperature and host both play an important factor when discussing the symptoms which an INSV infected plant will display. When New Guinea Impatiens are cultivated in an environment varying between 75 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit the host plant will be highly symptomatic. However, when New Guinea Impatiens are grown in an environment just 10 degrees cooler it is unlikely for there to be any observable symptoms of disease.	 primula Impatiens necrotic spot virus

These nematodes cause symptoms both on leaves and roots. Foliar symptoms of root-knot disease may be expressed at any time during the growing season. These symptoms of nematode damage on peanut plants range from stunting, yellowing, wilting and even plant death.  Ferris (1999–2012), also reported that nematodes cause yellowing; mid-day wilting; symptoms of water and nutrient stress; and sometimes death, especially if the nematode is interacting with other organisms.  They can appear in a peanut crop beginning about 100 days after planting or after periods of dry hot weather.  Areas of root-knot nematode damaged peanut are usually round to oblong in shape, and rows of infected plants may never overlap as those of healthy plants. It is common for plants to wilt and eventually die in areas where nematode populations are high.Root symptoms are similar to those caused by all nematodes including a reduction in number of feeder roots and root stunting, but root knot nematodes cause unique symptoms on roots and pods. Nematodes cause galls (knots) to form on both roots and pods of the peanut, and these galls are highly diagnostic for root-knot nematode presence compared to other nematodes affecting peanut. The presence of galls on roots, pegs and pods appears as single or multiple wart-like growths that may or may not be discolored. As root knot nematode infection progresses, and generally later in the season, secondary root and pod rots cause further damage and eventual death of the plants.Many soil-borne fungi, especially Sclerotium rolfsii (which causes southern stem rot) and Sclerotinia minor (which causes Sclerotinia blight), will infect the weakened peanut plants and cause more plant death. Root knot nematode infection of the peg weakens the peg so that it breaks during harvest, contributing to additional yield losses because the detached pods are then left in the soil. Infection of the pods leads to a decline in yield quality.The damage threshold, or the initial nematode population density at which peanut yields begin to decline, has been reported to be in the range of 1 to 10 eggs and second stage juveniles per 500 cm3 soil for M. arenaria on susceptible peanut cultivars.	 primula Meloidogyne arenaria

Meloidogyne hapla (Northern root-knot nematode) has a wide host range. It is polyphagous and affects over 550 crops and weeds. It feeds on many agricultural and horticultural plants (vegetables, fruits, ornamentals), but few grasses or cereals. A list of known hosts can be found at the bottom of this page.Symptoms can be seen in the roots, leaves, and the overall growth of the infected plant. In roots, there may be stunting, wilting, and the formation of abnormal growths called galls. Galls are usually small and spherical and are situated near many small roots. They are formed when the nematode enters the root and releases chemicals to enlarge root cells, on which they feed. The roots become defective and therefore cannot transport water and nutrients properly. The end result is stunted, wilted, and yellowing plants (characteristic of nutrient deficiency) and a decreased yield. Severity of the symptoms depends on nematode population density and host plant species and cultivar. As the number of nematodes increase in the area, the number and size of root galls increase as well. Each crop responds to Meloidogyne hapla differently. Carrots typically undergo severe forking with galling of the roots, lettuce have beadlike galls, and grasses and onions have small and barely noticeable galls and symptoms. In potato tubers (special stems), brown spots will appear on areas of the tubers where the females have laid their eggs.If a field has a patchy distribution of symptoms, it usually indicates the presence of nematodes. Most nematodes are not usually distributed uniformly in the soil. To correctly identify Meloidogyne hapla, the infected plant should be sent to a lab for a proper diagnosis. One common method is perineal pattern analysis where the perineum of the female nematode (area between the anus and the vulva) is examined for a specific pattern in ridges and annulations. Another common method is analyzing isozyme (different variations of the same enzyme produced by different genes) electrophoretic profiles using esterase and malate dehydrogenase.	 primula Meloidogyne hapla

Because there are so many different hosts for this pathogen, the symptoms are very variable. Common symptoms include abnormal leaf color, abnormal leaf form, wilting leaves, galls, swollen roots, reduced root system, dwarfing and senescence (Cabi 2018). This pathogen does the most damage when present in light soils with hot weather conditions (Alford 2012).	 primula Meloidogyne javanica

Phytophthora cactorum has an extremely wide host range, and can infect over 200 species or 160 genera of trees, ornamentals, and fruit crops. In general, P. cactorum is capable of infecting both young and old plants, and causes root rots and crown rots of the many genera it infects. Although the symptoms this pathogen produces varies between the types of organisms it infects, in general disease occurs during periods that are both wet and warm. Furthermore, most infections are caused by zoospores entering the plant through wounds.: 34 On older trees, P. cactorum causes the formation of sap exuding dark colored cankers on the trunks of trees, as well as leaf size and number reduction, chlorosis, and dieback of branches. The diagnosis of a P. cactorum infection of trees, is based on the identification of symptoms, in particular the oozing cankers, and confirmation of symptoms in a diagnosis lab or utilization of a field ELISA detection kit. P. cactorum can be a major problem in apple orchards, as it can cause crown, collar, and root rots in apple trees. When infecting apple trees, the organism can attack through wounds either above or below the soil line, impairing phloem and root function, and causing stunting, foliar disorders, and death after several years. Furthermore, because the pathogen causes damage to the phloem of the tree, one diagnostic method is to check for necrotic phloem tissue at the base of the tree which will be orange to red-brown in the early stages and dark brown in the later stages of infection.A good example of P. cactorum causing foliar disease is on ginseng. Foliar disease of ginseng usually occurs during May and early June, causing the leaves to become transparent and papery. Ginseng foliar infection occurs through the rain splash dispersal of spores from the soil onto above ground wounds. Once infected, P. cactorum works its way down to the roots, rotting them and killing the plant.P. cactorum is also one of the causal agents of black rot on orchids. When infecting orchids, this organism first produces small black lesions on the pseudobulbs of the orchid, which then enlarge and may engulf the entire pseudobulb, leaf, or move through the rhizomes to other portions of the plant prior to killing it. Diagnosis of orchid black rot by P. cactorum is through the identification of lemon-shaped zoosporangia with either a papilla or a short pedicel, the presence of oospores, or molecular identification. Since there are multiple species of Phytophthora that are capable of causing disease on orchids, classification only to the genus level is required for proper prescription of disease management techniques.Crown rot or root rot of strawberries is a common example of diseases of fruit crops caused by P. cactorum. On strawberries, P. cactorum infects the roots and the base of the plant causing stunting and reduced leaf size, with possible complete plant collapse later in the season. Similarly to apple trees, crown rots of strawberries caused by P. cactorum can be partially diagnosed by cutting the crown of the plant and observing brown vascular tissues, and root rots by brown or black stunted roots.Leather rot of strawberry is an additional disease affecting strawberry plants, with P. cactorum being the causal agent. Symptoms of this disease include brown patches or green patches with a brown border in immature fruit, with infected mature fruit displaying a purple to brown color, and becoming hard, leathery, or even mummified. Signs include visible mycelium inside of hollow infected berries, as well as mycelium on the surface of berries.  Infected fruit often has an unpleasant taste and odor, which is diagnostic. 	 primula Phytophthora cactorum

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 primula Phytophthora parasitica

Phytoplasmas can infect and cause various symptoms in more than 700 plant species. One characteristic symptom is abnormal floral organ development including phyllody (i.e., the production of leaf-like structures in place of flowers) and virescence (i.e., the development of green flowers attributable to a loss of pigment by petal cells). Phytoplasma-harboring flowering plants may nevertheless be sterile. The expression of genes involved in maintaining the apical meristem or in the development of floral organs is altered in the morphologically affected floral organs of phytoplasma-infected plants.A phytoplasma infection often triggers leaf yellowing, probably due to the presence of phytoplasma cells in phloem, which can affect phloem function and carbohydrate transport, inhibit chlorophyll biosynthesis, and trigger chlorophyll breakdown. These symptoms may be attributable to stress caused by the infection rather than a specific pathogenetic process.Many phytoplasma-infected plants develop a bushy or "witches' broom" appearance due to changes in their normal growth patterns. Most plants exhibit apical dominance but infection can trigger the proliferation of axillary (side) shoots and a reduction in internode size. Such symptoms are actually useful in the commercial production of poinsettias. Infection triggers more axillary shoot production; the poinsettia plants thus produce more than a single flower.	 primula Phytoplasma

Root lesion nematodes infect a great variety of hosts. Pratylenchus penetrans alone has over 350 host plants. They include agricultural crops such as soybeans, potatoes, corn, bananas, and wheat. The genus is found most often in corn. Signs of disease are similar in most plants and generally include necrotic lesions of the roots. The lesions can also be entrances for pathogenic bacteria and fungi, which produce secondary infections. Above ground the plant becomes stunted, chlorotic, and wilted, and it often dies. A crop field may be patchy as plants wither and die. Root lesion nematodes can cause significant yield losses.	 primula Pratylenchus

Pseudomonas cichorii is non-host specific as it does not infect just one host. Its host range includes lettuce, pepper, celery, coffee, wheat, basil and several other host plants. Symptoms of the causal agent vary depending on the host and the area of the plant infected. In general, pseudomonas cichorii is seen to cause leaf blighting and spotting. The first appearance of symptoms involves a water soaked lesion that develops at the edge of the leaf, midvein or randomly across the leaf  These lesions progressively turn black or brown and may be surrounded by yellow halos. These lesions also often “coalesce and progress to severe leaf blight under favorable conditions for the bacterium.” When the infected leaves become dry, the spots often look brittle and crack.	 primula Pseudomonas cichorii

Pythium irregulare is an oomycete that causes pre- and post-emergence damping off, as well as root rot. Pre-emergence damping off occurs when P. irregulare infects seeds before they emerge, causing them to rot and turn brown, thus preventing successful growth. Alternatively, post-emergence damping off occurs when the oomycete infects just after the seed has germinated. This usually causes infection in the roots and stem which appears as water soaking and necrosis. Depending on the severity, plants may collapse or be severely stunted. In plants that are older and more established, P. irregulare causes root rot. This will initially cause necrotic lesions, which leads to chlorosis, reduced yield, poor growth, and stunting due to inadequate water and nutrient acquisition by the roots. Additionally, P. irregulare is often found coinfecting with other Pythium species. All three of these diseases caused by P. irregulare can be caused by other pathogens as well, so a disease diagnosis is not necessarily indicative of P. irregulareIn order to identify Pythium irregulare it is necessary to isolate the organism and observe it microscopically. First, it is important to identify that the microbe is an oomycete by looking for characteristics that are specific to oomycetes, such as coenocytic hyphae, zoospores, and oospores. After that, one can identify the microbe as being in the genera Pythium by observing disease symptoms, host range, as well as the presence of a vesicle, where zoospores form, which is attached to the sporangia. In contrast, most other oomycetes do not have a vesicle and the zoospores form in the sporangia. Finally, once the genera has been identified, it is helpful to use a dichotomous key to identify the species. Some of the key identifiers for P. irregulare include oogonia with irregular shaped, cylindrical projections, sporangia that occur singly, sporangia that are not filamentous, and oogonia smaller than 30 μm. There are also many genomic tests that can be done to determine species based on specific DNA markers. It is also important to note that many diagnosticians do not identify to the species level because it can be difficult to find all necessary microscopic structures and many management techniques can be applied to all Pythium species.Pythium irregulare has a very broad host range, including many agronomically and horticulturally important crops and is found on every continent except for Antarctica. P. irregulare infects over 200 species, including cereals, legumes, fruits, vegetables, and ornamentals. It differs from many other Pythium species in that it prefers cooler environments. A moist environment is also necessary for disease, which aids motility of spores. It is commonly found in both greenhouses and fields.	 primula Pythium irregulare

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 primula Rhizoctonia solani

Tobacco necrosis virus (TNV) can thrive on a handful of viable hosts. These hosts include tobacco, zucchini, cucumbers, carrots, French bean, tomatoes, potatoes, and tulips. There are a variety of symptoms that are dependent on the host species. In infected plants, abnormal coloring or necrotic tissue in the leaves may occur and roots may have lesions. If bark is present on the plant, it may become discolored. Fruit or tubers can become covered with sunken and discolored spots and can be smaller overall. On a whole-plant scale, damping off or early dying may occur.	 primula Tobacco necrosis virus

TSWV infects a variety of hosts, contributing to its global economic impact on crops. There are over a thousand different hosts for TSWV. The host range of TSWV includes agronomically important crops like tomatoes and tobacco. The symptoms of TSWV vary from host to host. There is also variability of symptoms within a single type of host due to the age of the plant, nutrition and the environment (especially temperature). Common symptoms include stunting, ringspots on fruit and necrosis of leaves. There are many different strains of TSWV, and differences in symptoms may also be attributed to the differences in the number of strains present.	 primula Tomato spotted wilt virus

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 red clover Alternaria alternata

This virus was first characterized in cucumbers (Cucumis sativus) showing mosaic symptoms in 1934, hence the name Cucumber mosaic. Since then, it has been found to infect a great variety of other plants. These include other vegetables such as squash, melons, peppers, eggplants, tomatoes, beans, carrots, celery, lettuce, spinach, beets, many ornamentals and bedding plants, such as Narcissus, and various weeds. Its presence has been confirmed on every continent of the world, including Antarctica.Symptoms seen with this virus include leaf mosaic or mottling (Fig. 1), yellowing, ringspots, stunting, and leaf, flower and fruit distortion. CMV also induces a type of symptom on leaves known as the "shoestring" effect on many host species. This effect causes young leaves to appear narrow and the entire plant to be stunted.Specifically, CMV can cause cucumbers to turn pale and bumpy. The leaves of these plants turn mosaic and their rugosity is often changed, making leaves wrinkled and misshapen. Growth of these plants is usually also stunted and produces few flowers. Often, cucumber fruits are oddly shaped, appear gray, and tested bitter. These appearances lead to them being referred to as "white pickles".Tomato plants are usually stunted and have poorly shaped leaves, or "fernleaf", when infected by CMV. Also certain strains of CMV can cause partial or total crop loss. CMV in peppers causes slightly different symptoms than the previously mentioned. Pepper plants often have severe foliar damage, shown as mosaic and necrotic rings. Often the peppers themselves are misshapen and contain chlorotic rings and spots. In celery, CMV causes streaking and spotting and can be often confused with symptoms of the celery mosaic virus. Symptoms of CMV in lettuce, such as chlorosis, plant stunting and often do not properly head, can be very similar to those of lettuce mosaic virus.CMV has also been identified in a lesser extent to a number of plant species. It is found to be a minor virus infecting Allium crops. The virus infection causes extensive malformation on garlic plants, and mild malformation to severe necrotic streaks on onion leaves. The severe damages on garlic plants and difficulty of aphids transmission of garlic isolate, were possible causal for the rare CMV on garlic. Genetically, the two onion isolates from Turkey (CMV-14.3Po and CMV-15.5Po) are highly similar to others isolated from various plant species in Mediterranean, European, and East Asian countries. CMV was also detected on American beautyberry, an important wildlife and pollinator food source plant native to North America.In plant tissue this virus makes characteristic viral inclusion bodies which can be diagnostic. They are hexagonal in shape (Fig. 2) and stain both in a protein stain and a nucleic acid stain. The inclusions can also be rhomboidal, may appear hollow (Fig. 2) and can form larger aggregates. The inclusions are not uniformly distributed and can be found in epidermal (Fig. 2), mesophyll, and stomatal cells. These inclusions are made up of virus particles.			 red clover Cucumber mosaic virus

Curvularia trifolii is a fungal pathogen which causes leaf blight in clover. When the host plant is infected, lesions on the leaf start to appear as yellow discolored patches. These patches will eventually turn brown and form characteristic V-shaped lesions in between the leaf veins. When the petiole is infected, the leaf withers and dies. Damage is more common in younger leaves of the clover plant. C. trifolii occurs severely when the temperature increases considerably after the rainy season.	 red clover Curvularia trifolii

D. dipsaci has an extensive host range. Major damage occurs in garlic, onion, carrot, fava bean, alfalfa, oats, and strawberry. Ornamental plants can also be infected including hyacinth and tulip. It is estimated that this pathogen infects 400–500 plant species worldwide.In Allium species (onions, garlic, and leeks), infected plants show characteristic symptoms including stunted growth, yellow spots, leaf curl, and foliage lesions. Stems often have swollen regions called “spikkles.” As adult nematodes migrate into the scales of the bulb, and the scales become soft, grey, and loosely packed. Highly infected bulbs can also split apart or show malformed bloating. The leaves of the plant become flaccid and may collapse. This can lead to defoliated plants. Garlic shows similar symptoms of leaf yellowing and stunted bulbs. When harvested, the infected garlic may be missing portions of the root system.In fava beans (Vicia faba), symptoms of infection include reddish-brown stem lesions that can turn black. Young bean pods are dark-brown. Infected seeds are smaller and distorted compared to healthy beans. Speckles and spots are also commonly seen on infected fava beans.Up to 30 biological races occur within D. dipsaci that are mostly distinguished by their host preferences. Very little morphological differences are seen between the races which makes diagnosis difficult. Seed material samples from infected plants can be dissected and viewed under a microscope to confirm the correct race.	 red clover Ditylenchus dipsaci

Symptoms appear as dirty white, circular, floury patches on either sides of the leaves.Under favourable environmental conditions, entire leaves, stems, floral parts and pods are affected.The whole leaf may be covered with powdery mass.If persistent, mild chlorosis or necrosis can also occur.	 red clover Erysiphe polygoni

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 red clover Fusarium solani

In susceptible crops, any parts below the ground are liable to infection. The mycelium of the fungus forms a matted, felt-like purple covering which grows over the surface of the root. Soil particles adhere to this and small, dark-coloured sclerotia grow among the hyphae. A dry rot occurs and secondary rots may move in. Mycelial threads, often merging into strands, grow through the soil and infect nearby plants. A pink or brown mat of mycelial threads may grow above the soil surface. In affected plants, the aerial parts may wilt and have discoloured, stunted foliage.	 red clover Helicobasidium brebissonii

Mycoleptodiscus terrestris is an ascomycete with a wide host range that includes several types of popular aquatic weeds that have become invasive in their problem states – mainly southern states. But aside from them the pathogen also infects several types of alfalfa and legumes and have been seen to infect plants all the way up to Minnesota. This disease is known to cause several symptoms in affected hosts including: leaf spot, crowning, and lots of root rot. These symptoms are what cause major yield loss and is why this pathogen is so important to our agricultural systems.	 red clover Leptodiscus terrestris

These nematodes cause symptoms both on leaves and roots. Foliar symptoms of root-knot disease may be expressed at any time during the growing season. These symptoms of nematode damage on peanut plants range from stunting, yellowing, wilting and even plant death.  Ferris (1999–2012), also reported that nematodes cause yellowing; mid-day wilting; symptoms of water and nutrient stress; and sometimes death, especially if the nematode is interacting with other organisms.  They can appear in a peanut crop beginning about 100 days after planting or after periods of dry hot weather.  Areas of root-knot nematode damaged peanut are usually round to oblong in shape, and rows of infected plants may never overlap as those of healthy plants. It is common for plants to wilt and eventually die in areas where nematode populations are high.Root symptoms are similar to those caused by all nematodes including a reduction in number of feeder roots and root stunting, but root knot nematodes cause unique symptoms on roots and pods. Nematodes cause galls (knots) to form on both roots and pods of the peanut, and these galls are highly diagnostic for root-knot nematode presence compared to other nematodes affecting peanut. The presence of galls on roots, pegs and pods appears as single or multiple wart-like growths that may or may not be discolored. As root knot nematode infection progresses, and generally later in the season, secondary root and pod rots cause further damage and eventual death of the plants.Many soil-borne fungi, especially Sclerotium rolfsii (which causes southern stem rot) and Sclerotinia minor (which causes Sclerotinia blight), will infect the weakened peanut plants and cause more plant death. Root knot nematode infection of the peg weakens the peg so that it breaks during harvest, contributing to additional yield losses because the detached pods are then left in the soil. Infection of the pods leads to a decline in yield quality.The damage threshold, or the initial nematode population density at which peanut yields begin to decline, has been reported to be in the range of 1 to 10 eggs and second stage juveniles per 500 cm3 soil for M. arenaria on susceptible peanut cultivars.	 red clover Meloidogyne arenaria

Meloidogyne hapla (Northern root-knot nematode) has a wide host range. It is polyphagous and affects over 550 crops and weeds. It feeds on many agricultural and horticultural plants (vegetables, fruits, ornamentals), but few grasses or cereals. A list of known hosts can be found at the bottom of this page.Symptoms can be seen in the roots, leaves, and the overall growth of the infected plant. In roots, there may be stunting, wilting, and the formation of abnormal growths called galls. Galls are usually small and spherical and are situated near many small roots. They are formed when the nematode enters the root and releases chemicals to enlarge root cells, on which they feed. The roots become defective and therefore cannot transport water and nutrients properly. The end result is stunted, wilted, and yellowing plants (characteristic of nutrient deficiency) and a decreased yield. Severity of the symptoms depends on nematode population density and host plant species and cultivar. As the number of nematodes increase in the area, the number and size of root galls increase as well. Each crop responds to Meloidogyne hapla differently. Carrots typically undergo severe forking with galling of the roots, lettuce have beadlike galls, and grasses and onions have small and barely noticeable galls and symptoms. In potato tubers (special stems), brown spots will appear on areas of the tubers where the females have laid their eggs.If a field has a patchy distribution of symptoms, it usually indicates the presence of nematodes. Most nematodes are not usually distributed uniformly in the soil. To correctly identify Meloidogyne hapla, the infected plant should be sent to a lab for a proper diagnosis. One common method is perineal pattern analysis where the perineum of the female nematode (area between the anus and the vulva) is examined for a specific pattern in ridges and annulations. Another common method is analyzing isozyme (different variations of the same enzyme produced by different genes) electrophoretic profiles using esterase and malate dehydrogenase.	 red clover Meloidogyne hapla

Plants affected by M. incognita present above ground symptoms of water- and nutrient-stress, yellowing, wilting, and stunting. Below ground galling on roots, bulbs, tubers is the typical symptom. Plant death may occur in high infestation level.	 red clover Meloidogyne incognita

Because there are so many different hosts for this pathogen, the symptoms are very variable. Common symptoms include abnormal leaf color, abnormal leaf form, wilting leaves, galls, swollen roots, reduced root system, dwarfing and senescence (Cabi 2018). This pathogen does the most damage when present in light soils with hot weather conditions (Alford 2012).	 red clover Meloidogyne javanica

Mycoleptodiscus terrestris is an ascomycete with a wide host range that includes several types of popular aquatic weeds that have become invasive in their problem states – mainly southern states. But aside from them the pathogen also infects several types of alfalfa and legumes and have been seen to infect plants all the way up to Minnesota. This disease is known to cause several symptoms in affected hosts including: leaf spot, crowning, and lots of root rot. These symptoms are what cause major yield loss and is why this pathogen is so important to our agricultural systems.	 red clover Mycoleptodiscus terrestris

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 red clover Nectria haematococca

Peronospora trifoliorum commonly infects numerous strains and varieties of alfalfa. On alfalfa, the primary symptoms of Peronospora trifoliorum are chlorotic leaf blotches that range from light green to yellow-green to gray-green; rolled or downturned leaves; and thickened, stunted stems ending in rosette-like growths. The main method of identifying the disease is by the moldy, downy growth on the underside of leaves that appears white, gray, or light purple as this is a diagnostic sign of downy mildew of alfalfa (Davis, Frate, and Putnam, 2017). Only seedlings and young tissue are susceptible to infection which, with proper cultural controls, can limit the development and progression of the disease. There is also the potential for secondary infection, which can occur every five days during ideal conditions (Goldberg, 2000).Peronospora trifoliorum has been reported from Trifolium repens but it is uncommon.	 red clover Peronospora trifoliorum

Root lesion nematodes infect a great variety of hosts. Pratylenchus penetrans alone has over 350 host plants. They include agricultural crops such as soybeans, potatoes, corn, bananas, and wheat. The genus is found most often in corn. Signs of disease are similar in most plants and generally include necrotic lesions of the roots. The lesions can also be entrances for pathogenic bacteria and fungi, which produce secondary infections. Above ground the plant becomes stunted, chlorotic, and wilted, and it often dies. A crop field may be patchy as plants wither and die. Root lesion nematodes can cause significant yield losses.	 red clover Pratylenchus

Root lesion nematode has a wide host range, including hosts like apple, cherry, conifers, roses, tomato, potato, corn, onion and sugarbeets, and ornamentals such as Narcissus. More than 164 hosts for P. penetrans have been recorded.  In the host range there are some hosts that are susceptible, such as wheat, oat, field pea, faba bean, and chickpea, and some that are moderately susceptible, such as barley and canola.Some general symptoms that are produced on infected plants include poor growth, fruit spot, and chlorotic foliage.  These secondary symptoms are often due to plant root stress.  These make it rather difficult to diagnose nematode diseases in general.  The roots when infected produce necrotic lesions, which are darkened areas of dead tissue, on the surface and throughout the cortex of the infected roots.  These lesions turn the root to reddish-brown to black and are initially spotty.  As the nematode continues to feed, the lesions can coalesce to become large necrotic areas of tissue that may eventually girdle the root. The population size of the nematode affects the degree of symptoms.  Low to moderate populations may cause no visible above ground symptoms, while high populations can lead to stunting, nutrient and water deficiencies, and eventual die-back of the plant.  On potato, infection of root lesion nematode can cause a secondary invasion by Verticillium dahliae leading to Potato Early Dying.  Onions are another important host of P. penetrans.  Onions are an important vegetable for consumption in the United States and upon infection the nematodes can limit yield and quality of the bulbs.  Populations of more than 0.01 nematode per cubic centimeter of soil resulted in injury to onions.  There is a negative relationship between the increasing inoculum levels on onion root and top fresh weight at harvest.	 red clover Pratylenchus penetrans

In susceptible crops, any parts below the ground are liable to infection. The mycelium of the fungus forms a matted, felt-like purple covering which grows over the surface of the root. Soil particles adhere to this and small, dark-coloured sclerotia grow among the hyphae. A dry rot occurs and secondary rots may move in. Mycelial threads, often merging into strands, grow through the soil and infect nearby plants. A pink or brown mat of mycelial threads may grow above the soil surface. In affected plants, the aerial parts may wilt and have discoloured, stunted foliage.	 red clover Rhizoctonia crocorum

The fungal pathogen Phoma medicaginis attacks the host alfalfa. Numerous spots develop on the lower leaves, petioles, and stems. The disease produces small black spots on the leaves which eventually turn the leaf yellow, resulting in chlorosis and eventually cell death. Spots are usually worse on older leaves. Stem lesions are dark brown to black and may cut the stem all the way around its surface. Lesions on stems enlarge and may blacken large areas near the base of the plant. Affected stems are brittle and easily broken. When at its worst, entire stems can be blackened and killed. This can cause spread of the disease to the crowns and roots, also turning them black. When the fungus extends into the crown and root, it can cause crown and root rot.	 red clover Spring black stem

TSV has been reported worldwide in North and South America, Europe, India, Japan, Australia, New Zealand and South America. TSV has a wide host range including both monocots and dicots.  Economically important crop hosts include peanuts, sunflower, soybean, cranberry, cotton, chickpea and mung beans.  As with many plant viruses, diagnosis is very difficult because TSV has very wide host range and has different effects depending on the host being infected. Symptoms of TSV may include black streaks on stems and leaves, stunted growth, chlorosis, leaf mosaic, lodging, and deformed growing tips, to name a few. On tobacco plants, TSV causes chlorosis, with a unique pattern of white or dark necrotic leaf tissue close to the veins of the leaf.  As its name implies, necrotic streaks are found on leaf veins of infected plants.  Symptoms are strongly influenced by temperature.  For example, plants experiencing a temperature of 20° Celsius will develop small necrotic spots while at temperatures above 30° Celsius, necrotic spots will become large necrotic arcs. Symptoms are not sufficient to correctly identify TSV - serology and PCR techniques are required.	 red clover Tobacco streak virus

The symptoms that plants exhibit in response to the pathogenicity of Xiphinema americanum are similar to those of other migratory ectoparasitic nematodes of roots. It is common to see poor growth and or stunting of the plant, yellowing or wilting of the foliage, and reduced root systems which can include root necrosis, lack of feeder or secondary roots, and occasional tufts of stubby rootlets.Young, shortleaved yellow pine trees with moderate swelling of roots with clusters of short, stubby branches were the first demonstration of X. americanum pathogenicity in 1955. X. americanum can also cause severe effects on foliage, sometimes causing chlorosis and complete defoliation as seen on Guatemalan coffee trees. The dagger nematode causes the devitalization of root tips and overall root death when they feed at the root tips and root sides of strawberry plants. Reddish-brown lesions that turn black and necrotic with time result at the sites of feeding, and result in reduced root systems and stunted tops.Xiphinema americanum is listed as a C-rated pest in California due to its wide host range of California crops. C-rated pests are widespread, and are of known economic or environmental detriment, according to The California Department of Food and Agriculture. Due to X. americanum's difficulty in maintaining high populations in frequently tilled soils (see Control), the dagger nematode is mainly an economic problem on biennial and perennial crops rather than annual crops (except for damage to emerging seedlings).	 red clover Xiphinema americanum

Armillaria mellea typically infects hardwood trees and conifers but sometimes will infect non-woody monocots and a few herbaceous plants. There are few signs, and the ones that do exist are often hard to find. The most prominent sign is honey-colored mushrooms at the base of the infected plant. Additional signs include white, fan-shaped mycelia and black rhizomorphs with diameters between 1/32nd of an inch and 1/8th of an inch. These usually are not as noticeable because they occur beneath the bark and in the soil, respectively. The symptoms are much more numerous, including slower growth, dieback of branches, yellowing foliage, rotted wood at base and/or roots, external cankers, cracking bark, bleeding stem, leaf wilting, defoliation, and rapid death. Leaf wilting, defoliation, and dieback occur after the destruction of the cambium.	 rhododendron Armillaria mellea

Armillaria species infect a wide variety of woody plants. In a survey of 250 permanent plots of trees in Albania, Armillaria tabescens affected multiple species of trees including fir species, where it invaded when the plant was stressed. Tsopelas et al. reported Armillaria tabescens to be more prevalent in areas where the trees were stressed due to limited moisture. In oak trees, it was slightly more damaging and could kill young trees. Armillaria tabescens was also recorded in poplar and eucalyptus plantations, and almond trees were found to be very susceptible to infection. The results of the study by Lushaj et al. showed that Armillaria tabescens was most frequently recorded on fruit and ornamental trees compared to the other species.Armillaria tabescens causes separation of the bark from the wood by the production of mycelial fans in the trunk, a common sign of Armillaria root rot. It also causes gummosis, patches of gummy material on the surface of plants, which occurs in response to an external stimulus which causes the plant to ooze sap. Other common symptoms are soft rot of cortex, dwarfing, dieback, wilting, and abnormal coloring of the leaves. Small trees are killed rapidly by Armillaria tabescens and the symptoms aren’t noticeable until the leaves wilt. However, on larger trees symptoms occur earlier and start as a thin crown with small leaves. A crown of a tree refers to any branches or foliage that are growing out from the trunk. Therefore, thinning of the crown would mean reduced branches and leaves. The trees eventually start yellowing and defoliating followed by fast wilting and dying of limbs. The fungus is a white rot so it breaks down lignin in the wood. The breaking down of the lignin leads to the trees becoming hollow.	 rhododendron Armillaria tabescens

Armillaria species infect a wide variety of woody plants. In a survey of 250 permanent plots of trees in Albania, Armillaria tabescens affected multiple species of trees including fir species, where it invaded when the plant was stressed. Tsopelas et al. reported Armillaria tabescens to be more prevalent in areas where the trees were stressed due to limited moisture. In oak trees, it was slightly more damaging and could kill young trees. Armillaria tabescens was also recorded in poplar and eucalyptus plantations, and almond trees were found to be very susceptible to infection. The results of the study by Lushaj et al. showed that Armillaria tabescens was most frequently recorded on fruit and ornamental trees compared to the other species.Armillaria tabescens causes separation of the bark from the wood by the production of mycelial fans in the trunk, a common sign of Armillaria root rot. It also causes gummosis, patches of gummy material on the surface of plants, which occurs in response to an external stimulus which causes the plant to ooze sap. Other common symptoms are soft rot of cortex, dwarfing, dieback, wilting, and abnormal coloring of the leaves. Small trees are killed rapidly by Armillaria tabescens and the symptoms aren’t noticeable until the leaves wilt. However, on larger trees symptoms occur earlier and start as a thin crown with small leaves. A crown of a tree refers to any branches or foliage that are growing out from the trunk. Therefore, thinning of the crown would mean reduced branches and leaves. The trees eventually start yellowing and defoliating followed by fast wilting and dying of limbs. The fungus is a white rot so it breaks down lignin in the wood. The breaking down of the lignin leads to the trees becoming hollow.	 rhododendron Clitocybe tabescens

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 rhododendron Colletotrichum gloeosporioides

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 rhododendron Glomerella cingulata

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 rhododendron Phymatotrichopsis omnivora

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 rhododendron Phymatotrichum omnivorum

Phytophthora cactorum has an extremely wide host range, and can infect over 200 species or 160 genera of trees, ornamentals, and fruit crops. In general, P. cactorum is capable of infecting both young and old plants, and causes root rots and crown rots of the many genera it infects. Although the symptoms this pathogen produces varies between the types of organisms it infects, in general disease occurs during periods that are both wet and warm. Furthermore, most infections are caused by zoospores entering the plant through wounds.: 34 On older trees, P. cactorum causes the formation of sap exuding dark colored cankers on the trunks of trees, as well as leaf size and number reduction, chlorosis, and dieback of branches. The diagnosis of a P. cactorum infection of trees, is based on the identification of symptoms, in particular the oozing cankers, and confirmation of symptoms in a diagnosis lab or utilization of a field ELISA detection kit. P. cactorum can be a major problem in apple orchards, as it can cause crown, collar, and root rots in apple trees. When infecting apple trees, the organism can attack through wounds either above or below the soil line, impairing phloem and root function, and causing stunting, foliar disorders, and death after several years. Furthermore, because the pathogen causes damage to the phloem of the tree, one diagnostic method is to check for necrotic phloem tissue at the base of the tree which will be orange to red-brown in the early stages and dark brown in the later stages of infection.A good example of P. cactorum causing foliar disease is on ginseng. Foliar disease of ginseng usually occurs during May and early June, causing the leaves to become transparent and papery. Ginseng foliar infection occurs through the rain splash dispersal of spores from the soil onto above ground wounds. Once infected, P. cactorum works its way down to the roots, rotting them and killing the plant.P. cactorum is also one of the causal agents of black rot on orchids. When infecting orchids, this organism first produces small black lesions on the pseudobulbs of the orchid, which then enlarge and may engulf the entire pseudobulb, leaf, or move through the rhizomes to other portions of the plant prior to killing it. Diagnosis of orchid black rot by P. cactorum is through the identification of lemon-shaped zoosporangia with either a papilla or a short pedicel, the presence of oospores, or molecular identification. Since there are multiple species of Phytophthora that are capable of causing disease on orchids, classification only to the genus level is required for proper prescription of disease management techniques.Crown rot or root rot of strawberries is a common example of diseases of fruit crops caused by P. cactorum. On strawberries, P. cactorum infects the roots and the base of the plant causing stunting and reduced leaf size, with possible complete plant collapse later in the season. Similarly to apple trees, crown rots of strawberries caused by P. cactorum can be partially diagnosed by cutting the crown of the plant and observing brown vascular tissues, and root rots by brown or black stunted roots.Leather rot of strawberry is an additional disease affecting strawberry plants, with P. cactorum being the causal agent. Symptoms of this disease include brown patches or green patches with a brown border in immature fruit, with infected mature fruit displaying a purple to brown color, and becoming hard, leathery, or even mummified. Signs include visible mycelium inside of hollow infected berries, as well as mycelium on the surface of berries.  Infected fruit often has an unpleasant taste and odor, which is diagnostic. 	 rhododendron Phytophthora cactorum

The host range for Phytophythora cinnamomi is very broad. It is distributed worldwide and causes disease on hundreds of hosts. The disease affects a range of economic groups, including food crops such as avocado and pineapple as well as trees and woody ornamentals such as Fraser firs, shortleaf pines, loblolly pines, azaleas, camellia, boxwood, causing root rot and dieback. It is a root pathogen that causes root rot and death of host plants. Some symptoms include: wilting, decreased fruit size, decrease in yield, collar rot, gum exudation, necrosis, leaf chlorosis, leaf curl, and stem cankers. Another symptom is that it can cause dieback of young shoots and may interfere with transpiration of roots to shoots. Older plants may not exhibit symptoms or may display only mild dieback despite having severe root rot.	 rhododendron Phytophthora cinnamomi

The foliage of infected trees initially appears slightly lighter in colour than that of healthy trees. The whole canopy turns then to pale green, yellow and then light-brown when the tree is dying. As the pathogen extends from the roots and root collar up the trunks, a sharp margin is visible between necrotic phloem, discoloured to cinnamon brown and healthy cortical tissues.	 rhododendron Phytophthora lateralis

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 rhododendron Phytophthora nicotianae var. parasitica

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 rhododendron Phytophthora parasitica

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 rhododendron Rhizoctonia solani

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 rhododendron Thanatephorus cucumeris

The symptoms that plants exhibit in response to the pathogenicity of Xiphinema americanum are similar to those of other migratory ectoparasitic nematodes of roots. It is common to see poor growth and or stunting of the plant, yellowing or wilting of the foliage, and reduced root systems which can include root necrosis, lack of feeder or secondary roots, and occasional tufts of stubby rootlets.Young, shortleaved yellow pine trees with moderate swelling of roots with clusters of short, stubby branches were the first demonstration of X. americanum pathogenicity in 1955. X. americanum can also cause severe effects on foliage, sometimes causing chlorosis and complete defoliation as seen on Guatemalan coffee trees. The dagger nematode causes the devitalization of root tips and overall root death when they feed at the root tips and root sides of strawberry plants. Reddish-brown lesions that turn black and necrotic with time result at the sites of feeding, and result in reduced root systems and stunted tops.Xiphinema americanum is listed as a C-rated pest in California due to its wide host range of California crops. C-rated pests are widespread, and are of known economic or environmental detriment, according to The California Department of Food and Agriculture. Due to X. americanum's difficulty in maintaining high populations in frequently tilled soils (see Control), the dagger nematode is mainly an economic problem on biennial and perennial crops rather than annual crops (except for damage to emerging seedlings).	 rhododendron Xiphinema americanum

The disease is found in rice plants usually injured by insects or other diseases. Hot (20–28 °C (68–82 °F)) and humid (wet) weather favour the disease. It is also associated with virus-infected plants. Early symptoms are oblong to irregular spots, with gray centers and brown margins. Spots or rotting occur on the leaf sheath that encloses the young panicles. There is discoloration in the sheath. In severe infection, all or part of the young panicles do not emerge and remain within the sheath. Unemerged panicles will soon rot and produce powdery fungus growth inside the leaf sheath.Infection occurs on the uppermost leaf sheath at all stages, but is most damaging when it occurs at late booting stage.	 rice Acrocylindrium oryzae

Brown spot of rice is a plant fungal disease that usually occurs on the host leaves and glume, as well as seedlings, sheaths, stems and grains of adult host plants. Hosts include Oryza (Asian rice), Leersia (Cutgrass), Zizania (Wild rice), and other species as well such as Echinochloa colona (junglerice) and Zea mays (maize).Cochliobolus miyabeanus may cause a wide range of symptoms. General symptoms occurring on the hosts can be observed on many parts of the plant, including leaves, seeds, stems and inflorescences, along with the presence of brown spot. Discoloration of stems is another symptom develops from brown spot of rice disease. Oval-shaped brown spots are the fungal growth sign, which have grey colored center developed on host leaves. The fungus produces a toxin known as ophiobolin which inhibits the growth of roots, coleoptiles, and leaves. This pathogen has also been known to produce non-host specific toxins which suppress plant defenses, causing the characteristic brown spots on rice leaves.Dark coffee-coloured spots appear in the panicle and severe attacks cause spots in the grain and loss of yield and milling quality.Also, lesions on glumes and seeds occur if the pathogen associates with other fungi and insects. Such lesions may develop when favorable condition for sporulation is present.	 rice Bipolaris oryzae

Brown spot of rice is a plant fungal disease that usually occurs on the host leaves and glume, as well as seedlings, sheaths, stems and grains of adult host plants. Hosts include Oryza (Asian rice), Leersia (Cutgrass), Zizania (Wild rice), and other species as well such as Echinochloa colona (junglerice) and Zea mays (maize).Cochliobolus miyabeanus may cause a wide range of symptoms. General symptoms occurring on the hosts can be observed on many parts of the plant, including leaves, seeds, stems and inflorescences, along with the presence of brown spot. Discoloration of stems is another symptom develops from brown spot of rice disease. Oval-shaped brown spots are the fungal growth sign, which have grey colored center developed on host leaves. The fungus produces a toxin known as ophiobolin which inhibits the growth of roots, coleoptiles, and leaves. This pathogen has also been known to produce non-host specific toxins which suppress plant defenses, causing the characteristic brown spots on rice leaves.Dark coffee-coloured spots appear in the panicle and severe attacks cause spots in the grain and loss of yield and milling quality.Also, lesions on glumes and seeds occur if the pathogen associates with other fungi and insects. Such lesions may develop when favorable condition for sporulation is present.	 rice Cochliobolus miyabeanus

D. dadantii is phytopathogenic bacterium causing soft rot diseases on many host plants including some which are economically important. D. dadantii, more commonly known as: soft rot, brown rot or blackleg, causes characteristic symptoms associated with other bacterial wilts, causing final diagnosis to be difficult. The pathogen primarily seeks to attack the plant's xylem vessels located in leaves, stems, blossoms and storage organs of herbaceous plants. D. dadantii is able to infect hosts at any point in its life cycle. In addition to symptoms of wilt, the disease appears as sunken and cracked external lesions also having a brown interior in cross section in subterranean bulbs and tubers Diseased plants will display a variety of symptoms including: wilting, stunting and vascular discoloration of the stems. Early symptoms include water soaked lesions at the site of infection, gradually expanding chlorotic leaves and loss of turgor in tissues. The intensity of D. dadantii colonization relates to the amount of disease and degree of damage. The pathogen is very successful at infiltrating host tissues due to the many pectinases responsible for disassembly of plant cell wall polysaccharides. Once the cell wall is degraded cellular structure collapses and this cell maceration gives a characteristic "water-soaked" or rotted appearance. D. dadantii grow intercellularly, continuing to degrade cells and colonize, until it eventually reaches xylem tissues. Upon reaching the xylem vessels D. dadantii possesses the ability to spread to new regions of the host and other areas may begin to display symptoms. Colonization within the xylem restricts flow of water causing loss of turgor pressure and wilting of foliage and stems. Restricted movement of important plant compounds eventually lead to death of the host.	 rice Dickeya dadantii

 M. grisea is an ascomycete fungus. It is an extremely effective plant pathogen as it can reproduce both sexually and asexually to produce specialized infectious structures known as appressoria that infect aerial tissues and hyphae that can infect root tissues.Rice blast has been observed on rice strains M-201, M-202, M-204, M-205, M-103, M-104, S-102, L-204, Calmochi-101, with M-201 being the most vulnerable. Initial symptoms are white to gray-green lesions or spots with darker borders produced on all parts of the shoot, while older lesions are elliptical or spindle-shaped and whitish to gray with necrotic borders. Lesions may enlarge and coalesce to kill the entire leaf. Symptoms are observed on all above-ground parts of the plant. Lesions can be seen on the leaf collar, culm, culm nodes, and panicle neck node. Internodal infection of the culm occurs in a banded pattern. Nodal infection causes the culm to break at the infected node (rotten neck). It also affects reproduction by causing the host to produce fewer seeds. This is caused by the disease preventing maturation of the actual grain.	 rice Magnaporthe grisea

Magnaporthe salvinii (teleomorph), also known as Sclerotium oryzae (anamorph) and Nakataea sigmoidae (anamorph), is an ascomycete fungal pathogen that affects several rice and grass species, including:Echinochloa colona, jungle riceOryza sativa, common riceZizania aquatica, annual wild riceZizaniopsis miliacea, giant cutgrassvarious turf grassesThe first symptom that typically appears is a small, black, irregular lesion on the leaf sheath. Next, the lesion grows and penetrates the inner sheath until the leaf sheath becomes partially or totally rotted. The culm of the plant then shows black or brown discoloration and begins to shrivel. When the plant reaches maturity, the stem breaks due to the weakened, rotted stem. Sclerotia may be seen developing within the dead tissue of the rotted stem.	 rice Magnaporthe salvinii

 M. grisea is an ascomycete fungus. It is an extremely effective plant pathogen as it can reproduce both sexually and asexually to produce specialized infectious structures known as appressoria that infect aerial tissues and hyphae that can infect root tissues.Rice blast has been observed on rice strains M-201, M-202, M-204, M-205, M-103, M-104, S-102, L-204, Calmochi-101, with M-201 being the most vulnerable. Initial symptoms are white to gray-green lesions or spots with darker borders produced on all parts of the shoot, while older lesions are elliptical or spindle-shaped and whitish to gray with necrotic borders. Lesions may enlarge and coalesce to kill the entire leaf. Symptoms are observed on all above-ground parts of the plant. Lesions can be seen on the leaf collar, culm, culm nodes, and panicle neck node. Internodal infection of the culm occurs in a banded pattern. Nodal infection causes the culm to break at the infected node (rotten neck). It also affects reproduction by causing the host to produce fewer seeds. This is caused by the disease preventing maturation of the actual grain.	 rice Pyricularia grisea

 M. grisea is an ascomycete fungus. It is an extremely effective plant pathogen as it can reproduce both sexually and asexually to produce specialized infectious structures known as appressoria that infect aerial tissues and hyphae that can infect root tissues.Rice blast has been observed on rice strains M-201, M-202, M-204, M-205, M-103, M-104, S-102, L-204, Calmochi-101, with M-201 being the most vulnerable. Initial symptoms are white to gray-green lesions or spots with darker borders produced on all parts of the shoot, while older lesions are elliptical or spindle-shaped and whitish to gray with necrotic borders. Lesions may enlarge and coalesce to kill the entire leaf. Symptoms are observed on all above-ground parts of the plant. Lesions can be seen on the leaf collar, culm, culm nodes, and panicle neck node. Internodal infection of the culm occurs in a banded pattern. Nodal infection causes the culm to break at the infected node (rotten neck). It also affects reproduction by causing the host to produce fewer seeds. This is caused by the disease preventing maturation of the actual grain.	 rice Pyricularia oryzae

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 rice Rhizoctonia solani

The symptoms caused by RHBV are seen across the whole spectrum of the infected plant, and can be different depending on the specific rice strain and the age of the plant upon infection. Plant tissues that are already mature upon infection remain symptomless, while immature tissues display a variety of symptoms. Approximately 4 days after infection, cream-colored spots ranging in size from 2-5 millimeters begin to appear on immature leaves. Eventually, infected leaves suffer chlorosis and the spots turn white as the leaves mature, giving the virus its namesake. As time goes on, chlorotic spots increase and form stripes, with entire leaves eventually succumbing to infection and becoming completely chlorotic. RHBV infection is systemic to the plant, and subsequent leaves will emerge displaying either heavy stripes or complete chlorosis. Tillers infected by RHBV will be stunted compared to normal, non-infected tillers. The panicles of infected tillers may be sterile, and often have malformed or discolored grains. Root size and number will reduce, with the roots eventually turning brown and dying completely.RHBV can also cause symptoms in its insect vector, infecting various organs and glands in the planthopper. These infections can have mild to severe results on the host, leading to organ failure, respiratory and digestive track failure, and muscle atrophy Such infections can possibly reduce the fertility or longevity of an infected female.	 rice Rice hoja blanca tenuivirus

Rice plants are susceptible to infection starting at the seedling age. The only known means of virus transmission is via planthoppers. Typical symptoms of rice stripe virus infection include pale and discontinuous yellow stripes, blotches, and dead tissue streaks on the leaves. Severe infections cause grey necrotic streaks and result in the death of the plant.	 rice Rice stripe tenuivirus

Younger seedlings (3–4 leaf growth stage) are the most susceptible – older plants generally exhibit less obvious foliar symptoms and less stunting than younger siblings. Symptoms appear initially as yellow-green linear spots on the base of the youngest leaves. As the infection grows the spots expand parallel to leaf veins and appear as yellow or orange streaks; these can vary in width, but can be continuous up to 10 cm.Affected plants have yellow or orange leaves at the early stage of the crop. In severe cases, leaves roll up and dry. Other symptoms are stunting, reduced tillering and poor panicle filling. This results in low or no seed production and poor grain quality.	 rice Rice yellow mottle virus

The disease is found in rice plants usually injured by insects or other diseases. Hot (20–28 °C (68–82 °F)) and humid (wet) weather favour the disease. It is also associated with virus-infected plants. Early symptoms are oblong to irregular spots, with gray centers and brown margins. Spots or rotting occur on the leaf sheath that encloses the young panicles. There is discoloration in the sheath. In severe infection, all or part of the young panicles do not emerge and remain within the sheath. Unemerged panicles will soon rot and produce powdery fungus growth inside the leaf sheath.Infection occurs on the uppermost leaf sheath at all stages, but is most damaging when it occurs at late booting stage.	 rice Sarocladium oryzae

Magnaporthe salvinii (teleomorph), also known as Sclerotium oryzae (anamorph) and Nakataea sigmoidae (anamorph), is an ascomycete fungal pathogen that affects several rice and grass species, including:Echinochloa colona, jungle riceOryza sativa, common riceZizania aquatica, annual wild riceZizaniopsis miliacea, giant cutgrassvarious turf grassesThe first symptom that typically appears is a small, black, irregular lesion on the leaf sheath. Next, the lesion grows and penetrates the inner sheath until the leaf sheath becomes partially or totally rotted. The culm of the plant then shows black or brown discoloration and begins to shrivel. When the plant reaches maturity, the stem breaks due to the weakened, rotted stem. Sclerotia may be seen developing within the dead tissue of the rotted stem.	 rice Sclerotium oryzae

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 rose Alternaria alternata

While it is common for the hosts not to show any symptoms of the pathogens influence, there are some symptoms that can occur in the hosts. The most prevalent symptoms of the ArMV are stunting of the plant and leaf flecking/molting and leaf enations. The symptoms will vary based on the type of rootstock, environmental conditions and variety.	 rose Arabis mosaic virus

Botryosphaeria ribis is an ascomycete plant pathogen that primarily affects woody hosts in a number of temperate and tropical regions. The susceptible hosts include a number of economically important plants such as apple, peach, almond, banana, and walnut trees, among others.  The disease is noted by cankers, leaf spots, and necrosis, as well as twig dieback. On healthy leaves, the necrosis begins apically at the margins, extending back along the midrib, occasionally reaching the base and causing complete blight of the leaf.  Twig dieback also starts apically and works towards the center of the plant.  It is characterized by a slow necrosis of the branch, leaving large, dead limbs on the upper portions of trees.  Under the microscope, it can be identified by its immersed, pyriform perithecia (pear-shaped, spore-containing structures), which have a brown exterior wall.  The ascospores within the perithecia are ellipsoid in shape, with a smooth exterior and granular cytoplasm.  The anamorph (asexual stage) of B. ribis is Fusicoccum ribis, and although less abundant, it is characterized by globose pycnidia containing smooth, hyaline macro- and microconidia.  These symptoms have the potential to significantly decrease yield or kill the host.	 rose Botryosphaeria ribis

One of the most well-known diseases caused by Ceratocystis paradoxa is Black rot or stem-end rot of pineapple, but it can also infect tropical fruit plants such as banana and coconuts as well as sugarcane. The pathogen infects the fruits through wounds or other openings after harvest has already happened and the fruit is fresh.Symptoms for this disease are very obvious black lesions on the fruit, the main infection part of the plant. If the pathogen infects the plant while fruits are still on it, they will prematurely drop. Other symptoms include discoloration of leaves as well as the seeds. The lesions on the fruit evolve to become soft rot spots that produce a heinous odor. The fruit can even get to the point of breakdown.Known hosts:Ananas comosus (pineapple)AraceaeAreca catechu (betelnut palm)Borassus flabellifer (toddy palm)Butia capitataCocos nucifera (coconut)Coffea (coffee)Daucus carota (carrot)Dypsis decaryiElaeis guineensis (African oil palm)EucalyptusHowea forsteriana (paradise palm)Mangifera indica (mango)Musa x paradisiaca (plantain)Phoenix dactylifera (date-palm)Saccharum officinarum (sugarcane)Solanum muricatum (melon pear)Theobroma cacao (cocoa)Zea mays (maize)	 rose Ceratocystis paradoxa

Infected plants may show small purple-brown lesions sporadically around the surface of the leaves.	 rose Cercospora rosicola

One of the most well-known diseases caused by Ceratocystis paradoxa is Black rot or stem-end rot of pineapple, but it can also infect tropical fruit plants such as banana and coconuts as well as sugarcane. The pathogen infects the fruits through wounds or other openings after harvest has already happened and the fruit is fresh.Symptoms for this disease are very obvious black lesions on the fruit, the main infection part of the plant. If the pathogen infects the plant while fruits are still on it, they will prematurely drop. Other symptoms include discoloration of leaves as well as the seeds. The lesions on the fruit evolve to become soft rot spots that produce a heinous odor. The fruit can even get to the point of breakdown.Known hosts:Ananas comosus (pineapple)AraceaeAreca catechu (betelnut palm)Borassus flabellifer (toddy palm)Butia capitataCocos nucifera (coconut)Coffea (coffee)Daucus carota (carrot)Dypsis decaryiElaeis guineensis (African oil palm)EucalyptusHowea forsteriana (paradise palm)Mangifera indica (mango)Musa x paradisiaca (plantain)Phoenix dactylifera (date-palm)Saccharum officinarum (sugarcane)Solanum muricatum (melon pear)Theobroma cacao (cocoa)Zea mays (maize)	 rose Chalara thielavioides

One of the most well-known diseases caused by Ceratocystis paradoxa is Black rot or stem-end rot of pineapple, but it can also infect tropical fruit plants such as banana and coconuts as well as sugarcane. The pathogen infects the fruits through wounds or other openings after harvest has already happened and the fruit is fresh.Symptoms for this disease are very obvious black lesions on the fruit, the main infection part of the plant. If the pathogen infects the plant while fruits are still on it, they will prematurely drop. Other symptoms include discoloration of leaves as well as the seeds. The lesions on the fruit evolve to become soft rot spots that produce a heinous odor. The fruit can even get to the point of breakdown.Known hosts:Ananas comosus (pineapple)AraceaeAreca catechu (betelnut palm)Borassus flabellifer (toddy palm)Butia capitataCocos nucifera (coconut)Coffea (coffee)Daucus carota (carrot)Dypsis decaryiElaeis guineensis (African oil palm)EucalyptusHowea forsteriana (paradise palm)Mangifera indica (mango)Musa x paradisiaca (plantain)Phoenix dactylifera (date-palm)Saccharum officinarum (sugarcane)Solanum muricatum (melon pear)Theobroma cacao (cocoa)Zea mays (maize)	 rose Chalaropsis thielavioides

All brambles, especially black raspberries, are susceptible to cane blight. The causal agent for Cane Blight is the fungus Leptosphaeria coniothyrium.The infection spreads internally first, therefore outwardly noticeable symptoms typically do not appear quickly. Symptoms could be exposed by peeling back the xylem and looking at the internal plant tissue. Healthy tissue would appear green, whereas diseased tissue develop dark lesions and vascular streaking.By late summer or fall, well after the initial infection, dark red or purple lesions can appear near wounded sites. Sometimes, large cankers develop causing necrosis and death of the cane in the following year. In the spring buds may fail to break, lateral branches may appear wilted, or canes may die as the fruit begins to ripen. Canes can also break or appear brittle near infection sites.Signs of cane blight include small black raised specks, which are the sporocarps, or fruiting bodies called pycnidia and/or pseudothecia. In wet conditions, gray spore masses may appear and ooze from cankers on the cane or in dry conditions appear fuzzy and powdery.	 rose Coniothyrium fuckelii

All brambles, especially black raspberries, are susceptible to cane blight. The causal agent for Cane Blight is the fungus Leptosphaeria coniothyrium.The infection spreads internally first, therefore outwardly noticeable symptoms typically do not appear quickly. Symptoms could be exposed by peeling back the xylem and looking at the internal plant tissue. Healthy tissue would appear green, whereas diseased tissue develop dark lesions and vascular streaking.By late summer or fall, well after the initial infection, dark red or purple lesions can appear near wounded sites. Sometimes, large cankers develop causing necrosis and death of the cane in the following year. In the spring buds may fail to break, lateral branches may appear wilted, or canes may die as the fruit begins to ripen. Canes can also break or appear brittle near infection sites.Signs of cane blight include small black raised specks, which are the sporocarps, or fruiting bodies called pycnidia and/or pseudothecia. In wet conditions, gray spore masses may appear and ooze from cankers on the cane or in dry conditions appear fuzzy and powdery.	 rose Diapleella coniothyrium

Initial symptoms include large, angular or blocky, yellow areas visible on the upper surface. As lesions mature, they expand rapidly and turn brown. The under surface of infected leaves appears watersoaked. Upon closer inspection, a purple-brown mold (see arrow) becomes apparent. Small spores shaped like footballs can be observed among the mold with a 10x hand lens. In disease-favorable conditions (cool nights with long dew periods), downy mildew will spread rapidly, destroying leaf tissue without affecting stems or petioles.	 rose Downy mildew

All brambles, especially black raspberries, are susceptible to cane blight. The causal agent for Cane Blight is the fungus Leptosphaeria coniothyrium.The infection spreads internally first, therefore outwardly noticeable symptoms typically do not appear quickly. Symptoms could be exposed by peeling back the xylem and looking at the internal plant tissue. Healthy tissue would appear green, whereas diseased tissue develop dark lesions and vascular streaking.By late summer or fall, well after the initial infection, dark red or purple lesions can appear near wounded sites. Sometimes, large cankers develop causing necrosis and death of the cane in the following year. In the spring buds may fail to break, lateral branches may appear wilted, or canes may die as the fruit begins to ripen. Canes can also break or appear brittle near infection sites.Signs of cane blight include small black raised specks, which are the sporocarps, or fruiting bodies called pycnidia and/or pseudothecia. In wet conditions, gray spore masses may appear and ooze from cankers on the cane or in dry conditions appear fuzzy and powdery.	 rose Leptosphaeria coniothyrium

Meloidogyne hapla (Northern root-knot nematode) has a wide host range. It is polyphagous and affects over 550 crops and weeds. It feeds on many agricultural and horticultural plants (vegetables, fruits, ornamentals), but few grasses or cereals. A list of known hosts can be found at the bottom of this page.Symptoms can be seen in the roots, leaves, and the overall growth of the infected plant. In roots, there may be stunting, wilting, and the formation of abnormal growths called galls. Galls are usually small and spherical and are situated near many small roots. They are formed when the nematode enters the root and releases chemicals to enlarge root cells, on which they feed. The roots become defective and therefore cannot transport water and nutrients properly. The end result is stunted, wilted, and yellowing plants (characteristic of nutrient deficiency) and a decreased yield. Severity of the symptoms depends on nematode population density and host plant species and cultivar. As the number of nematodes increase in the area, the number and size of root galls increase as well. Each crop responds to Meloidogyne hapla differently. Carrots typically undergo severe forking with galling of the roots, lettuce have beadlike galls, and grasses and onions have small and barely noticeable galls and symptoms. In potato tubers (special stems), brown spots will appear on areas of the tubers where the females have laid their eggs.If a field has a patchy distribution of symptoms, it usually indicates the presence of nematodes. Most nematodes are not usually distributed uniformly in the soil. To correctly identify Meloidogyne hapla, the infected plant should be sent to a lab for a proper diagnosis. One common method is perineal pattern analysis where the perineum of the female nematode (area between the anus and the vulva) is examined for a specific pattern in ridges and annulations. Another common method is analyzing isozyme (different variations of the same enzyme produced by different genes) electrophoretic profiles using esterase and malate dehydrogenase.	 rose Meloidogyne hapla

Nectria cinnabarina, also known as coral spot, is a weak pathogen of broadleaf trees. While beech is the main host, the parasite can also affect Sycamore, Horse Chestnut, and Hornbeam. This pathogen usually affects trees that have already been weakened as a result of stressful factors, such as drought or fungal infestation. Physical damage can also make the tree susceptible to the pathogen. The pathogen forms pink fungal blobs (indicative of its sexual stage) on the outside of dead wood which turn a reddish-brown color and become quite hard. The blobs are usually 1 to 4 mm in length. Other symptoms include small twigs and branches dying back and branch necrosis. The bark that is infected becomes weak and tends to snap off in windy weather. The pathogen thrives in dead wood and airborne spores infect living trees and shrubs through wounds. Since it is caused by a weak fungus, isolation of the pathogen from diseased tissue and an analysis for fungal properties, such as induced sporulation or microscopically seeing cross-walls in hyphae, can aid in diagnosis. Furthermore, many fungi studies in media involve the formation of concentric hyphal zonations or rings of sporulation as the colony develops. This zonation is usually attributed to environmental changes. The sporulation rhythm of N. cinnabarina is conveyed by concentric rings or spirals and is dependent on temperature.	 rose Nectria cinnabarina

Meloidogyne hapla (Northern root-knot nematode) has a wide host range. It is polyphagous and affects over 550 crops and weeds. It feeds on many agricultural and horticultural plants (vegetables, fruits, ornamentals), but few grasses or cereals. A list of known hosts can be found at the bottom of this page.Symptoms can be seen in the roots, leaves, and the overall growth of the infected plant. In roots, there may be stunting, wilting, and the formation of abnormal growths called galls. Galls are usually small and spherical and are situated near many small roots. They are formed when the nematode enters the root and releases chemicals to enlarge root cells, on which they feed. The roots become defective and therefore cannot transport water and nutrients properly. The end result is stunted, wilted, and yellowing plants (characteristic of nutrient deficiency) and a decreased yield. Severity of the symptoms depends on nematode population density and host plant species and cultivar. As the number of nematodes increase in the area, the number and size of root galls increase as well. Each crop responds to Meloidogyne hapla differently. Carrots typically undergo severe forking with galling of the roots, lettuce have beadlike galls, and grasses and onions have small and barely noticeable galls and symptoms. In potato tubers (special stems), brown spots will appear on areas of the tubers where the females have laid their eggs.If a field has a patchy distribution of symptoms, it usually indicates the presence of nematodes. Most nematodes are not usually distributed uniformly in the soil. To correctly identify Meloidogyne hapla, the infected plant should be sent to a lab for a proper diagnosis. One common method is perineal pattern analysis where the perineum of the female nematode (area between the anus and the vulva) is examined for a specific pattern in ridges and annulations. Another common method is analyzing isozyme (different variations of the same enzyme produced by different genes) electrophoretic profiles using esterase and malate dehydrogenase.	 rose Northern root-knot nematode

Phragmidium tuberculatum, also known as rose rust, is a parasitic fungus that feeds on living cells of a host plant.  It can affect all species of the family Rosaceae. This includes all species of roses. Rose rust causes distortion and discoloration on stems. Sometimes it will cause galls and lesions.  In the spring, there are yellow spots on the upper portion of the leaf and during the Spring and Summer there are orange spores on the abaxial surface of the leaf.	 rose Phragmidium

Phytoplasmas can infect and cause various symptoms in more than 700 plant species. One characteristic symptom is abnormal floral organ development including phyllody (i.e., the production of leaf-like structures in place of flowers) and virescence (i.e., the development of green flowers attributable to a loss of pigment by petal cells). Phytoplasma-harboring flowering plants may nevertheless be sterile. The expression of genes involved in maintaining the apical meristem or in the development of floral organs is altered in the morphologically affected floral organs of phytoplasma-infected plants.A phytoplasma infection often triggers leaf yellowing, probably due to the presence of phytoplasma cells in phloem, which can affect phloem function and carbohydrate transport, inhibit chlorophyll biosynthesis, and trigger chlorophyll breakdown. These symptoms may be attributable to stress caused by the infection rather than a specific pathogenetic process.Many phytoplasma-infected plants develop a bushy or "witches' broom" appearance due to changes in their normal growth patterns. Most plants exhibit apical dominance but infection can trigger the proliferation of axillary (side) shoots and a reduction in internode size. Such symptoms are actually useful in the commercial production of poinsettias. Infection triggers more axillary shoot production; the poinsettia plants thus produce more than a single flower.	 rose Phytoplasma

A wide variety of rose species are susceptible to powdery mildew. In light of this it is more practical to discuss the rose varieties that are resistant as opposed to those that are susceptible. Two varieties that have been found to show resistance to rose powdery mildew are "Paul's Pink" rose variety and the "Magic" rose variety. Other research has shown that many chestnut rose (Rosa roxburghii) varieties are also resistant to powdery mildew. Rosa sterilis, Rosa kweichowensis, Rosa laevigata, Rosa lucidissima, and Rosa chinensis have all been shown to be resistant to powdery mildew. R. multiflora var. multiflora and R. multiflora var. cathayensis have all been shown to be susceptible to rose powdery mildew. Symptoms caused by the rose powdery mildew can be a dwarfing of the growth of the plant, or the twisting and deforming of leaves, but more noticeable is a sign of the disease, which is the white condia, the “powder” that appears on the plant surfaces, such as leaves, shoots, flowers, and buds. The fungus may grow on both new and old leaves, but is generally more concentrated on the underside of the leaf 	 rose Podosphaera pannosa

Root lesion nematode has a wide host range, including hosts like apple, cherry, conifers, roses, tomato, potato, corn, onion and sugarbeets, and ornamentals such as Narcissus. More than 164 hosts for P. penetrans have been recorded.  In the host range there are some hosts that are susceptible, such as wheat, oat, field pea, faba bean, and chickpea, and some that are moderately susceptible, such as barley and canola.Some general symptoms that are produced on infected plants include poor growth, fruit spot, and chlorotic foliage.  These secondary symptoms are often due to plant root stress.  These make it rather difficult to diagnose nematode diseases in general.  The roots when infected produce necrotic lesions, which are darkened areas of dead tissue, on the surface and throughout the cortex of the infected roots.  These lesions turn the root to reddish-brown to black and are initially spotty.  As the nematode continues to feed, the lesions can coalesce to become large necrotic areas of tissue that may eventually girdle the root. The population size of the nematode affects the degree of symptoms.  Low to moderate populations may cause no visible above ground symptoms, while high populations can lead to stunting, nutrient and water deficiencies, and eventual die-back of the plant.  On potato, infection of root lesion nematode can cause a secondary invasion by Verticillium dahliae leading to Potato Early Dying.  Onions are another important host of P. penetrans.  Onions are an important vegetable for consumption in the United States and upon infection the nematodes can limit yield and quality of the bulbs.  Populations of more than 0.01 nematode per cubic centimeter of soil resulted in injury to onions.  There is a negative relationship between the increasing inoculum levels on onion root and top fresh weight at harvest.	 rose Pratylenchus penetrans

All cultivated species of the genus Prunus, which includes plums, cherries, apricots, almonds, and peaches, are susceptible to one or more strains of PNRSV. Hops and rose are also susceptible to infection by the virus. Other susceptible hosts used for diagnosis include Chenopodium quinoa Willd., sunflower (Helianthus annus), and Momordica balsamina.Symptoms on orchard trees can include death of buds and roots, reduced tree survival and uniformity, and increased susceptibility to winter injury. Some common symptoms also include necrotic “shot holes” in leaves or rugosity and mosaic symptoms. In sweet cherries, PNRSV causes reduced leaf size and produces diffused chlorotic rings and/or spots. Generally, symptoms of PNRSV appear in the year following infection, and then becomes symptomless, although some strains cause recurrent symptoms annually. Although adult trees can show recovery from initial symptoms, keeping young trees virus-free is important because the virus can cause long-lasting stunting compared to healthy trees.  It is important to note that symptom severity varies due to host cultivar and viral isolate.	 rose Prunus necrotic ringspot virus

Phragmidium tuberculatum, also known as rose rust, is a parasitic fungus that feeds on living cells of a host plant.  It can affect all species of the family Rosaceae. This includes all species of roses. Rose rust causes distortion and discoloration on stems. Sometimes it will cause galls and lesions.  In the spring, there are yellow spots on the upper portion of the leaf and during the Spring and Summer there are orange spores on the abaxial surface of the leaf.	 rose Rose rust

Leaves become patchy and reddish in color. There are decreased yields.	 rose Strawberry latent ringspot virus

Nectria cinnabarina, also known as coral spot, is a weak pathogen of broadleaf trees. While beech is the main host, the parasite can also affect Sycamore, Horse Chestnut, and Hornbeam. This pathogen usually affects trees that have already been weakened as a result of stressful factors, such as drought or fungal infestation. Physical damage can also make the tree susceptible to the pathogen. The pathogen forms pink fungal blobs (indicative of its sexual stage) on the outside of dead wood which turn a reddish-brown color and become quite hard. The blobs are usually 1 to 4 mm in length. Other symptoms include small twigs and branches dying back and branch necrosis. The bark that is infected becomes weak and tends to snap off in windy weather. The pathogen thrives in dead wood and airborne spores infect living trees and shrubs through wounds. Since it is caused by a weak fungus, isolation of the pathogen from diseased tissue and an analysis for fungal properties, such as induced sporulation or microscopically seeing cross-walls in hyphae, can aid in diagnosis. Furthermore, many fungi studies in media involve the formation of concentric hyphal zonations or rings of sporulation as the colony develops. This zonation is usually attributed to environmental changes. The sporulation rhythm of N. cinnabarina is conveyed by concentric rings or spirals and is dependent on temperature.	 rose Tubercularia vulgaris

There are many strains of Verticillium dahliae which are categorized into vegetative compatibility groups (VCG). These groups comprise strains that are able to exchange genetic material via anastomosis. Each VCG affects a few or only one host and the virulence of the pathogen varies by host. While individual V. dahliae strains are relatively host specific, as a species it has a wide range.Verticillium dahliae has a very wide host range, affecting over 300 plant species. Some susceptible crops include Brussels sprouts, cabbage, eggplant, cucumbers, mint, pepper, potatoes, pumpkin, spinach, tomato, watermelon, honeydew, and cantaloupe. Of these, tomato, potato, and eggplant have resistant or tolerant varieties.Symptoms of this disease are seen throughout the plant. Leaves may have abnormal coloration, necrotic areas, wilt, and/or fall off the plant. The stem may have discolored vascular tissue, exhibit rosetting (shortened internodes of the plant caused by reduced growth, resulting in a rosette-like appearance), and/or be stunted. Early senescence and dieback may also occur.Microsclerotia can be seen under a lens as small black structures in the vasculature of living and dead plants. This feature can be used to distinguish V. dahliae from V. albo-atrum, the other verticillium wilt pathogen.	 rose Verticillium dahliae

Verticillium spp. attack a very large host range including more than 350 species of vegetables, fruit trees, flowers, field crops, and shade or forest trees.  Most vegetable species have some susceptibility, so it has a very wide host range.  A list of known hosts is at the bottom of this page.The signs are similar to most wilts with a few specifics to Verticillium.  Wilt itself is the most common sign, with wilting of the stem and leaves occurring due to the blockage of the xylem vascular tissues and therefore reduced water and nutrient flow.  In small plants and seedlings, Verticillium can quickly kill the plant while in larger, more developed plants the severity can vary.  Some times only one side of the plant will appear infected because once in the vascular tissues, the disease migrates mostly upward and not as much radially in the stem.  Other symptoms include stunting, chlorosis or yellowing of the leaves, necrosis or tissue death, and defoliation.  Internal vascular tissue discoloration might be visible when the stem is cut.In Verticillium, the signs and effects will often only be on the lower or outer parts of plants or will be localized to only a few branches of a tree.  In older plants, the infection can cause death, but often, especially with trees, the plant will be able to recover, or at least continue living with the infection.  The severity of the infection plays a large role in how severe the signs are and how quickly they develop.	 rose Verticillium wilt

G. graminicola is an anamorphic fungus which is identified as Colletotrichum graminicola in the teleomorphic phase. It is the anamorphic phase that causes anthracnose in many cereal species. While the main host of this disease is maize, it can also affect other cereals and grasses, such as sorghum, ryegrass, bluegrass, barley, wheat, and some cultivars of fescue where the production of fruiting bodies cause symptoms to appear in the host plant.  Corn anthracnose leaf blight is the most common stalk disease in maize and occurs most frequently in reduced-till or no-till fields.Symptoms can vary depending on which part of the growing season the corn is in.Early in the growing season, the main symptom is foliar leaf blight. This often appears as 1 inch (25 mm) long and 1⁄2 inch (13 mm) wide oval or spindle-shaped water-soaked lesions on the lower leaves of the plant. This tissue can become necrotic and has the potential to spread throughout the entire leaf, causing it to yellow and die. They are light brown in color, with margins that appear dark brown or purple. If this persists, black fruiting bodies will appear in the center of the lesion.The mid-season symptoms appear several weeks after corn produces tassels, when there will be a top die-back if the infection has spread throughout many parts of the plant. In this dieback, the entire plant will become necrotic and die, beginning at the tassel and working its way down the entire stalk to the lowest leaves.Late in the growing season, another major symptom of this disease appears: stalk rot. It can first be seen as a reflective black stripe on the internodes of the stalk, and can make the stalk soft, causing the plants to easily lodge in heavy precipitation or a wind event.	 rye Colletotrichum graminicola

D. dipsaci has an extensive host range. Major damage occurs in garlic, onion, carrot, fava bean, alfalfa, oats, and strawberry. Ornamental plants can also be infected including hyacinth and tulip. It is estimated that this pathogen infects 400–500 plant species worldwide.In Allium species (onions, garlic, and leeks), infected plants show characteristic symptoms including stunted growth, yellow spots, leaf curl, and foliage lesions. Stems often have swollen regions called “spikkles.” As adult nematodes migrate into the scales of the bulb, and the scales become soft, grey, and loosely packed. Highly infected bulbs can also split apart or show malformed bloating. The leaves of the plant become flaccid and may collapse. This can lead to defoliated plants. Garlic shows similar symptoms of leaf yellowing and stunted bulbs. When harvested, the infected garlic may be missing portions of the root system.In fava beans (Vicia faba), symptoms of infection include reddish-brown stem lesions that can turn black. Young bean pods are dark-brown. Infected seeds are smaller and distorted compared to healthy beans. Speckles and spots are also commonly seen on infected fava beans.Up to 30 biological races occur within D. dipsaci that are mostly distinguished by their host preferences. Very little morphological differences are seen between the races which makes diagnosis difficult. Seed material samples from infected plants can be dissected and viewed under a microscope to confirm the correct race.	 rye Ditylenchus dipsaci

Tan spot is found primarily on wheat, but is also found to infect other cereals and grasses including triticale, barley, and rye, but are less frequently affected. Other grass species effected by the pathogen include Siberian wheat grass, sand bluestem, meadow brome, sheep fescue, June grass, little bluestem, green foxtail, needle and thread, and tall wheatgrass. While these are not necessarily agriculture crop hosts such as wheat, the pathogen is able to form and survive on many grass hosts, which can eventually venture into wheat fields. Other important grass susceptible hosts include smooth brome which can be found in pastures, as well as quack grass that is found in the environment and considered a weed in many agricultural crops. Lesions typically appear on both upper and lower leaf surfaces, and initially are tan to brown specks. Eventually, the tan to brown specks expand to larger irregular, oval, lens-shaped, ellipse, tan blotches with a yellow ring around them. The yellow ring is often referred to as a halo, yellow discoloration as chlorosis, and browning/death of leaf tissue as necrosis. The development of a dark brown to black spot in the center the lesion is characteristic of the disease. If warmer temperatures and moist conditions persist, spores known as conidia will move up plant as secondary inoculum and can also infect head/spikes. Symptoms on the head are indistinct, but can cause brownish glumes, and grains can have a reddish appearance similar to the pathogen Fusarium.	 rye Drechslera tritici-repentis

Triticum spp. (wheat) is the only host of B. g. f. sp. tritici. Signs on the foliage of wheat are white, powdery mycelium and conidia. As the disease progresses, the patches turn gray and small dark black or brown cleistothecia form in the mycelium mass. Symptoms progress from lower to upper leaves. Symptoms of powdery mildew are chlorotic areas surrounding the infected areas. The lower leaf surface corresponding to the mycelial mat will also show chlorosis. Lower leaves are commonly the most infected because of higher humidity around them.	 rye Erysiphe graminis

M. nivale can infect all cool-season turf grass species.  Annual bluegrass (Poa annua), perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne) and creeping bentgrass (Agrostis stolonifera) are more susceptible. In the fall, M.nivale infection begins as small, orange to red-brown spots, circular and only a few centimeters in diameter.  During the winter and into the spring seasons, well-defined, clustered, circular patches 10-20 cm in diameter, of necrotic leaf tissues form on mown turf.  Microdochium nivale is mostly seen on grasses mown at heights of three inches or greater. On taller grass, patches often lack a circular pattern that is seen in shorter mown grass. Pink snow mold patches usually follow drainage patterns since conidia spores are readily dislodged and transported by rainfall and water flowage.  Under prolonged cool and wet conditions, white-pink mycelium can be observed along the circumference of diseased patches.	 rye Fusarium patch

The pathogen is capable of causing a variety of diseases: head blight or 'scab' on wheat (Triticum), barley (Hordeum), rice (Oryza), oats (Avena), and Gibberella stalk and ear rot disease on maize (Zea). Additionally, the fungus may infect other plant species without causing any disease symptoms.MaizeIn Gibberella stalk rot, the leaves on early-infected plants will turn a dull greyish-green, and the lower internodes will soften and turn a tan to dark-brown. A pink-red discoloration occurs within the stalks of diseased tissue. Shredding of the pith may reveal small, round, black perithecia on the stalks. Gibberella (red) ear rot can have a reddish mold that is often at the ear tip. The infection occurs by colonizing corn silk and symptoms first occur at the ear's apex. The white mycelium turns from pink to red over time, eventually covering the entire ear. Ears that become infected early don't fully develop the reddish mold near the ear tip, as the mold grows between the husks and ear.RiceGibberella zeae can turn affected seeds red and cause brown discoloration in certain areas on the seed or the entire seed surface. The surface of husks develop white spots that later become yellow and salmon or carmine. Infected grains are light, shrunken and brittle. Stem nodes begin to rot and wilt, eventually causing them to turn black and disintegrate when they are infected by the fungal pathogen.WheatBrown, dark purple-black necrotic lesions will form on the outer surface of the spikelets, what the wheat ear breaks up into. The lesions may be referred to as scabs, but this is not to be confused and associated with other scab diseases such as those with different host and pathogen. Head blight is visible before the spikes mature. Spikelets begin to appear water-soaked before the loss of chlorophyll, which gives a white straw color. Peduncles that are directly under the inflorescence can become discolored into a brown-purple color. Tissues of the inflorescence typically become blighted into a bleached tan appearance, and the grain within it atrophies. The awn will become deformed, twisted and curve in a downward direction.BarleyInfections on barley are not always visible in the field. Similar to wheat, infected spikelets show a browning or water-soaked appearance. The infected kernels display a tan to dark brown discoloration. During long periods of wetness, pink to salmon-orange spore masses can be seen on the infected spikelets and kernels. The cortical lesions of infected seeds become a reddish-brown in cool, moist soil. Warm soil can cause head blight to occur after emergence, and crown and basal culm rot can be observed in later plant development.	 rye Gibberella zeae

Tan spot is found primarily on wheat, but is also found to infect other cereals and grasses including triticale, barley, and rye, but are less frequently affected. Other grass species effected by the pathogen include Siberian wheat grass, sand bluestem, meadow brome, sheep fescue, June grass, little bluestem, green foxtail, needle and thread, and tall wheatgrass. While these are not necessarily agriculture crop hosts such as wheat, the pathogen is able to form and survive on many grass hosts, which can eventually venture into wheat fields. Other important grass susceptible hosts include smooth brome which can be found in pastures, as well as quack grass that is found in the environment and considered a weed in many agricultural crops. Lesions typically appear on both upper and lower leaf surfaces, and initially are tan to brown specks. Eventually, the tan to brown specks expand to larger irregular, oval, lens-shaped, ellipse, tan blotches with a yellow ring around them. The yellow ring is often referred to as a halo, yellow discoloration as chlorosis, and browning/death of leaf tissue as necrosis. The development of a dark brown to black spot in the center the lesion is characteristic of the disease. If warmer temperatures and moist conditions persist, spores known as conidia will move up plant as secondary inoculum and can also infect head/spikes. Symptoms on the head are indistinct, but can cause brownish glumes, and grains can have a reddish appearance similar to the pathogen Fusarium.	 rye Helminthosporium tritici-repentis

Karnal bunt attacks durum wheat, rye, and triticale, a hybrid of wheat and rye. Despite its preference for a common crop, Karnal bunt can be extremely difficult to diagnose in the field for many reasons. First, not all kernels on a plant head will be infected, and thus infected plants are not as readily identifiable. This distribution is the reason for Karnal bunt's being referred to as partial bunt. Another factor which makes Karnal bunt difficult to readily diagnose in the field is the fact that most infected kernels do not show symptoms prior to maturity.The disease produces dark color and a fishy smell on infected kernels. Usually only the germ end of the kernel will show symptoms, but occasionally the entire kernel may appear diseased. The darkening of the kernel is a result of the kernel tissue being converted in a teliospore mass by the fungus. Another symptom is referred to as the "canoe symptom" as in the process of replacing the healthy kernel with teliospores, the disease tends to hollow out host kernels, resulting in a canoe shape. While the dark teliospores of the fungus may be diagnostic, diagnosis of Karnal bunt poses the added difficulty of differentiating between Karnal bunt from other infections which also result in the aforementioned symptoms, such as black point, common bunt, and dwarf bunt.	 rye Neovossia indica

Tan spot is found primarily on wheat, but is also found to infect other cereals and grasses including triticale, barley, and rye, but are less frequently affected. Other grass species effected by the pathogen include Siberian wheat grass, sand bluestem, meadow brome, sheep fescue, June grass, little bluestem, green foxtail, needle and thread, and tall wheatgrass. While these are not necessarily agriculture crop hosts such as wheat, the pathogen is able to form and survive on many grass hosts, which can eventually venture into wheat fields. Other important grass susceptible hosts include smooth brome which can be found in pastures, as well as quack grass that is found in the environment and considered a weed in many agricultural crops. Lesions typically appear on both upper and lower leaf surfaces, and initially are tan to brown specks. Eventually, the tan to brown specks expand to larger irregular, oval, lens-shaped, ellipse, tan blotches with a yellow ring around them. The yellow ring is often referred to as a halo, yellow discoloration as chlorosis, and browning/death of leaf tissue as necrosis. The development of a dark brown to black spot in the center the lesion is characteristic of the disease. If warmer temperatures and moist conditions persist, spores known as conidia will move up plant as secondary inoculum and can also infect head/spikes. Symptoms on the head are indistinct, but can cause brownish glumes, and grains can have a reddish appearance similar to the pathogen Fusarium.	 rye Pyrenophora tritici-repentis

Pythium aphanidermatum is responsible for pre- and post-emergence damping off.  Pre-emergence damping off is when the seed is infected prior to germination.  This can result in poor or no germination, and is observable as a browning or rotting of the seed.  Post-emergence damping off takes place after germination and results in a thinning, water-soaked stem near the plant collar, which eventually causes the collapse of the plant.  P. aphanidermatum can also cause root rot.  Symptoms of root rot include stunted growth, chlorotic leaves, leaf drop, and wilting.  The infection begins at the root tip, and can cause the infected region to lose its protective outer layer, exposing the inner root to other pathogens	 rye Pythium aphanidermatum

Pythium graminicola infects a wide range of hosts, including: bent grass, turmeric, cotton, barley, wheat, rice, beans, peas, and sugarcane. In particular Pythium graminicola is an important pathogen of graminaceous plants. As with many Pythium diseases, the most common symptom of Pythium graminicola is root/seed rot, which can then cause damping off. However, Pythium graminicola can also infect above ground tissue causing stalk rot in maize, foot rot of beans, leaf blight of grasses and feeder root necrosis in rice, sugarcane and maize. Diagnosis of Pythium graminicola can be made through observation of the above symptoms and the presence of oomycete structures, such as sporangia.	 rye Pythium graminicola

Symptoms are most visible in the first fruiting year and are most apparent during the last couple of weeks before harvest.> Early symptoms will include reduced vigor and a decrease in the ability to survive high water conditions. Plants may experience lodging when water demand is high. Infected plants may continue to grow but will show aboveground symptoms including stunting, decreased fruit size, and numerous dead older leaves. Belowground symptoms include the deterioration of roots. Infected plants may have feeder and main roots that are smaller and covered in black lesions. Feeder roots will appear water soaked. In the early stages of infection, the core of the root will appear white while the exterior begins to show black lesions. In severely affected roots, both the core and the outer tissue of the root will be black [3]. Stained feeder roots may reveal masses of moniliform cells of R. fragariae. Characteristics of R. fragariae include hyphal branching pattern, dolipore septa, and moniliform resting cells. The binucleated hyphae directly penetrate the root.	 rye Rhizoctonia cerealis

Typhula spp. impacts cool season turfgrass that experiences extended periods of snow cover. These species of hosts can include creeping bentgrass, annual ryegrass, and perennial ryegrass. Some of its more common hosts include fine fescue, tall fescue, and Kentucky bluegrass. Symptoms of the pathogen often manifest in all species the same way; as circular patches 6 inches to a foot in diameter of dead or damaged turfgrass. Sometimes patches can be as large as three feet and can merge into other patches. These “scars” in the turf can remain until May or early June. Dead plant tissue becomes matted and blades become grayish and brittle after drying. Signs of the disease can include visible mycelium on turf after snow clears and dark brown or black sclerotia structures embedded in dead plant tissue.	 rye Snow mold

Plants that are infected with Tilletia caries will be stunted anywhere from a few centimeters/inches below average to half the average height of a healthy plant. Additionally, the heads are slender and remain green longer than healthy heads. A symptom that is indicative of T. caries is the replacement of yellow heads with grey bunt balls in the head of infected plants. The infected bunt balls are about the same shape and size as normal kernels. When the mature kernels are broken, they are full of a black, powdery mass of the fungal spores. These fungal spores give off a distinctive fishy smell and are oily to the touch. By the time symptoms are able to be detected, the pathogen is systemic throughout the plant, making it difficult to detect the pathogen early in the infection period.	 rye Tilletia caries

Typhula blight is a major problem with cool season turfgrasses during winter months. These grasses include bentgrass, annual bluegrass, perennial ryegrass, fine fescue, and kentucky bluegrass. Typhula blight is also commonly referred to as gray snow mold due to the gray colored patches found after snow has melted. Gray snow mold affects all of its hosts in the same way. After the snow has melted, gray to grayish white patches of mycelium, six to twelve inches in diameter, can be found. Within the patches, diseased grass blades often reveal either rusty or reddish brown colored sclerotia up to five millimeters in diameter. Gray snow mold can cause thinning and possibly death of the infected host.	 rye Typhula blight

Typhula incarnata is, along with Typhula ishikariensis, the causal agent of gray snow mold (also known as speckled snow mold or Typhula blight).  This plant pathogen destroys cool season turfgrasses grown in areas with extended periods of snowcover.  “Turfgrass hosts include but are not limited to: annual bluegrass, colonial bentgrass, creeping bentgrass, fine-leaf fescues, Kentucky bluegrass, perennial ryegrass, and tall fescue”.  Signs of the pathogen can be observed in the spring as circular grayish-brown patches, about 15 cm in diameter, of mycelium.  T. incarnata can be distinguished from T. ishkikariensis by its sclerotia.  T. incarnata has reddish-brown sclerotia with a diameter of 1.5–3 mm, whereas T. iskikariensis has black sclerotia with a diameter of 0.5-1.5 mm.	 rye Typhula incarnata

The primary host for Soil-borne wheat mosaic virus is the wheat plant, Triticum aestivum, although the virus can also affect rye, barley, and triticale.  Symptoms of the disease are primarily found on the leaves.  These symptoms include chlorotic leaf mottling or leaf mosaic, rosetting, stunting, streaking, and blotching of leaves. The mosaic and mottling symptoms may range from mild green to yellow, and leaves may sometimes also have dashes, parallel streaks, reddish streaking, and necrosis at the tips. Symptoms usually occur around the same time each year. This time is usually early spring, although in warmer climates it is possible that symptoms can emerge in late fall or early winter. Diseased fields are often uneven in appearance of symptoms especially in low wet areas.   This is because the drainage pattern of water on the field is used by the virus to infect plants.	 rye Wheat soil-borne mosaic virus

This virus was first characterized in cucumbers (Cucumis sativus) showing mosaic symptoms in 1934, hence the name Cucumber mosaic. Since then, it has been found to infect a great variety of other plants. These include other vegetables such as squash, melons, peppers, eggplants, tomatoes, beans, carrots, celery, lettuce, spinach, beets, many ornamentals and bedding plants, such as Narcissus, and various weeds. Its presence has been confirmed on every continent of the world, including Antarctica.Symptoms seen with this virus include leaf mosaic or mottling (Fig. 1), yellowing, ringspots, stunting, and leaf, flower and fruit distortion. CMV also induces a type of symptom on leaves known as the "shoestring" effect on many host species. This effect causes young leaves to appear narrow and the entire plant to be stunted.Specifically, CMV can cause cucumbers to turn pale and bumpy. The leaves of these plants turn mosaic and their rugosity is often changed, making leaves wrinkled and misshapen. Growth of these plants is usually also stunted and produces few flowers. Often, cucumber fruits are oddly shaped, appear gray, and tested bitter. These appearances lead to them being referred to as "white pickles".Tomato plants are usually stunted and have poorly shaped leaves, or "fernleaf", when infected by CMV. Also certain strains of CMV can cause partial or total crop loss. CMV in peppers causes slightly different symptoms than the previously mentioned. Pepper plants often have severe foliar damage, shown as mosaic and necrotic rings. Often the peppers themselves are misshapen and contain chlorotic rings and spots. In celery, CMV causes streaking and spotting and can be often confused with symptoms of the celery mosaic virus. Symptoms of CMV in lettuce, such as chlorosis, plant stunting and often do not properly head, can be very similar to those of lettuce mosaic virus.CMV has also been identified in a lesser extent to a number of plant species. It is found to be a minor virus infecting Allium crops. The virus infection causes extensive malformation on garlic plants, and mild malformation to severe necrotic streaks on onion leaves. The severe damages on garlic plants and difficulty of aphids transmission of garlic isolate, were possible causal for the rare CMV on garlic. Genetically, the two onion isolates from Turkey (CMV-14.3Po and CMV-15.5Po) are highly similar to others isolated from various plant species in Mediterranean, European, and East Asian countries. CMV was also detected on American beautyberry, an important wildlife and pollinator food source plant native to North America.In plant tissue this virus makes characteristic viral inclusion bodies which can be diagnostic. They are hexagonal in shape (Fig. 2) and stain both in a protein stain and a nucleic acid stain. The inclusions can also be rhomboidal, may appear hollow (Fig. 2) and can form larger aggregates. The inclusions are not uniformly distributed and can be found in epidermal (Fig. 2), mesophyll, and stomatal cells. These inclusions are made up of virus particles.			 safflower Cucumber mosaic virus

Lettuce mosaic virus (LMV) has a wide host range. All types of lettuce are susceptible, including Crisphead, Romaine, Butterhead, and leaf lettuces.  And in nature, the virus infects members of that same family (Asteraceae), including crop plants such as lettuce, endive, escarole, as well as various weeds and wild lettuce species. Perennial weeds and ornamental hosts are also of great importance as they can be reservoirs for inoculum. The most commonly infected cultivated plants are endive, escarole, and lettuce.  Other plants such as pea, safflower, and spinach may also become infected.Lettuce mosaic virus has a wide range of symptoms which depend on the cultivar or the type of lettuce, the age of the plant when infected, and the conditions of the environment.  The disease gets its name from the characteristic green and yellow mottling and mosaic pattern that develops on the leaves of infected plants.  Other symptoms of LMV often include yellowing of the leaves and vein clearing. In certain lettuce cultivars such as Crisphead, LMV-infected plants experience stunting and distortion of leaves.  Leaves often develop a downward rolling of the leaf tips.  Some infected plants also fail to form small heads, grow irregularly-shaped leaves, and experience stunting.  Necrotic spots on stems and leaves may grow into wide-spread necrosis.Depending on the time of infection, infected lettuce cultivars develop different symptoms.  Plants that were infected at later stages of growth develop mottling on leaves ranging from light-green to yellow in color.  Infected lettuce plants that have flowered develop symptoms such as chlorosis of the leaves and stunting of the plant.Diagnosis of Lettuce mosaic virus can be difficult despite having characteristic symptoms.  Numerous viruses may infect the species, which makes the diagnosis particularly difficult.  Diagnosis of LMV infection in lettuce requires diagnostic tests to confirm the disease.  Diagnostic tests that may be used to confirm the infection include serological methods such as lateral-flow devices and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and sequencing can also be used to confirm the infection.  The development of these diagnostic techniques has led to an increase in the speed of diagnosis, allowing for it to occur in-field for lettuce crops.	 safflower Lettuce mosaic virus

One of the most harmful seed and soil borne pathogens, Macrophomina phaseolina is a fungus that infects nearly 500 plant species in more than 100 families. The hosts include: peanut, cabbage, pepper, chickpea, soybean, sunflower, sweet potato, alfalfa, sesame, potato, sorghum, wheat, and corn, among others. The identification of isolates of M. phaseolina is usually based on morphology and efforts to divide the pathogen into subspecies, but because there are wide intraspecific variations in the phenotype of the isolates, these criteria are often not reliable. The failure to correctly detect and identify M. phaseolina using conventional culture-based morphological techniques has led scientists to develop nucleic acid-based molecular approaches, such as highly sensitive and specific polymerase chain reaction-based methods. Researchers have also recently created species-specific oligonucleotide primers and digoxigenin-labeled probes in hopes of better identifying and detecting M. phaseolina.The pathogen M. phaseolina affects the fibrovascular system of the roots and basal internodes of its host, impeding the transport of water and nutrients to the upper parts of the plant. As a result, progressive wilting, premature dying, loss of vigor, and reduced yield are characteristic symptoms of M. phaseolina infection. The fungus also causes many diseases like damping off, seedling blight, collar rot, stem rot, charcoal rot, basal stem rot, and root rot. Although brown lesions may form on the hypocotyls or emerging seedlings, many symptoms occur during or after flowering, including grey discoloration of the stem and taproots, shredding of plant tissue in the stem and top of the taproot, and hollowing of the stem. Small black dots may form beneath the epidermis of the lower stem and in the taproot, giving the stems and roots a charcoal-sprinkled appearance. When the epidermis is removed, small and black microsclerotia (a sign of the disease) may be so numerous that they give a greyish-black tint to the plant tissue. In addition, reddish-brown discoloration and black streaks can form in the pith and vascular tissues of the root and stem.	 safflower Macrophomina phaseolina

Phytophthora cactorum has an extremely wide host range, and can infect over 200 species or 160 genera of trees, ornamentals, and fruit crops. In general, P. cactorum is capable of infecting both young and old plants, and causes root rots and crown rots of the many genera it infects. Although the symptoms this pathogen produces varies between the types of organisms it infects, in general disease occurs during periods that are both wet and warm. Furthermore, most infections are caused by zoospores entering the plant through wounds.: 34 On older trees, P. cactorum causes the formation of sap exuding dark colored cankers on the trunks of trees, as well as leaf size and number reduction, chlorosis, and dieback of branches. The diagnosis of a P. cactorum infection of trees, is based on the identification of symptoms, in particular the oozing cankers, and confirmation of symptoms in a diagnosis lab or utilization of a field ELISA detection kit. P. cactorum can be a major problem in apple orchards, as it can cause crown, collar, and root rots in apple trees. When infecting apple trees, the organism can attack through wounds either above or below the soil line, impairing phloem and root function, and causing stunting, foliar disorders, and death after several years. Furthermore, because the pathogen causes damage to the phloem of the tree, one diagnostic method is to check for necrotic phloem tissue at the base of the tree which will be orange to red-brown in the early stages and dark brown in the later stages of infection.A good example of P. cactorum causing foliar disease is on ginseng. Foliar disease of ginseng usually occurs during May and early June, causing the leaves to become transparent and papery. Ginseng foliar infection occurs through the rain splash dispersal of spores from the soil onto above ground wounds. Once infected, P. cactorum works its way down to the roots, rotting them and killing the plant.P. cactorum is also one of the causal agents of black rot on orchids. When infecting orchids, this organism first produces small black lesions on the pseudobulbs of the orchid, which then enlarge and may engulf the entire pseudobulb, leaf, or move through the rhizomes to other portions of the plant prior to killing it. Diagnosis of orchid black rot by P. cactorum is through the identification of lemon-shaped zoosporangia with either a papilla or a short pedicel, the presence of oospores, or molecular identification. Since there are multiple species of Phytophthora that are capable of causing disease on orchids, classification only to the genus level is required for proper prescription of disease management techniques.Crown rot or root rot of strawberries is a common example of diseases of fruit crops caused by P. cactorum. On strawberries, P. cactorum infects the roots and the base of the plant causing stunting and reduced leaf size, with possible complete plant collapse later in the season. Similarly to apple trees, crown rots of strawberries caused by P. cactorum can be partially diagnosed by cutting the crown of the plant and observing brown vascular tissues, and root rots by brown or black stunted roots.Leather rot of strawberry is an additional disease affecting strawberry plants, with P. cactorum being the causal agent. Symptoms of this disease include brown patches or green patches with a brown border in immature fruit, with infected mature fruit displaying a purple to brown color, and becoming hard, leathery, or even mummified. Signs include visible mycelium inside of hollow infected berries, as well as mycelium on the surface of berries.  Infected fruit often has an unpleasant taste and odor, which is diagnostic. 	 safflower Phytophthora cactorum

This species is reported to be pathogenic on grandiflora petunia (Petunia × atkinsiana). It causes root rot, shoot rot and shanking in tulips. It also infects blue daze (Evolvulus glomeratus), dusty miller (Jacobaea maritima), Barberton daisy (Gerbera jamesonii), and garden verbena (Verbena × hybrida). Like its relative Phytophtora cambivora, it can cause ink disease of chestnuts (Castanea sativa).The species is a cause of foot rot in tomatoes, causing discoloration and lesion in the stem. Progression of lesions leads to girdling, root system rot and plant collapse. Foliage will not be affected until plant stem has become girdled.	 safflower Phytophthora cryptogea

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 safflower Phytophthora nicotianae var. parasitica

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 safflower Phytophthora parasitica

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 safflower Rhizoctonia solani

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 safflower Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 safflower Thanatephorus cucumeris

There are many strains of Verticillium dahliae which are categorized into vegetative compatibility groups (VCG). These groups comprise strains that are able to exchange genetic material via anastomosis. Each VCG affects a few or only one host and the virulence of the pathogen varies by host. While individual V. dahliae strains are relatively host specific, as a species it has a wide range.Verticillium dahliae has a very wide host range, affecting over 300 plant species. Some susceptible crops include Brussels sprouts, cabbage, eggplant, cucumbers, mint, pepper, potatoes, pumpkin, spinach, tomato, watermelon, honeydew, and cantaloupe. Of these, tomato, potato, and eggplant have resistant or tolerant varieties.Symptoms of this disease are seen throughout the plant. Leaves may have abnormal coloration, necrotic areas, wilt, and/or fall off the plant. The stem may have discolored vascular tissue, exhibit rosetting (shortened internodes of the plant caused by reduced growth, resulting in a rosette-like appearance), and/or be stunted. Early senescence and dieback may also occur.Microsclerotia can be seen under a lens as small black structures in the vasculature of living and dead plants. This feature can be used to distinguish V. dahliae from V. albo-atrum, the other verticillium wilt pathogen.	 safflower Verticillium dahliae

INSV has a wide host range and can be found in over 300 plant species including weeds, fruits, vegetables and ornamental crops. Of these, the most severely affected include tomatoes, lettuce, pepper and peppermint as well as most all ornamentals. Symptoms of infection include a downward curling of the leaves, leaf tip dieback, stunting, necrosis of growing leaf tips, sunken ‘chicken pox-like’ spots on leaves (often with a surrounding halo), stem death and yellowing.  Since these symptoms are so generic, extreme caution must be taken when introducing new plants to your greenhouse. Infected plants can not be cured and not all hosts display visible symptoms Western Flower Thrips are extremely hard to remove from their host plants, as they often dig themselves deep into blossoms, buds and other areas hard to reach with insecticides. So, even if plants are sprayed regularly with insecticide, INSV and other insect vectored viruses can not always be ruled out when forming diagnosis.Temperature and host both play an important factor when discussing the symptoms which an INSV infected plant will display. When New Guinea Impatiens are cultivated in an environment varying between 75 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit the host plant will be highly symptomatic. However, when New Guinea Impatiens are grown in an environment just 10 degrees cooler it is unlikely for there to be any observable symptoms of disease.	 sapphire flower Impatiens necrotic spot virus

TSWV infects a variety of hosts, contributing to its global economic impact on crops. There are over a thousand different hosts for TSWV. The host range of TSWV includes agronomically important crops like tomatoes and tobacco. The symptoms of TSWV vary from host to host. There is also variability of symptoms within a single type of host due to the age of the plant, nutrition and the environment (especially temperature). Common symptoms include stunting, ringspots on fruit and necrosis of leaves. There are many different strains of TSWV, and differences in symptoms may also be attributed to the differences in the number of strains present.	 sapphire flower Tomato spotted wilt virus

Ascochyta sorghi infects grain crops such as sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), Sudan grass (Sorghum sudanense), and barley (Hordeum vulgare). It can also infect wild sorghum species.Symptoms of rough leaf spot can appear on leaf blades, leaf sheaths, peduncles, stalks, and glumes of susceptible species. On sorghum, symptoms are usually noted on leaf blades beginning as small red lesions. Lesions expand over time, becoming broadly-elliptical up to one inch in length. Spots usually develop a tan interior bordered by a dark red to purple color, but can remain a uniform dark color. The presence of black pycnidia exposed on the surface of the lesions give the leaf a rough, sandpapery feeling, hence the name “rough leaf spot.” Rough leaf spot can eventually lead to leaf senescence.	 sorghum Ascochyta sorghi

Small holes or 'windows' in straight lines across the newest leaves of maize or sorghum. Eggs are found on the underside of the leaf; they are ~ 1mm  creamy white/yellowish in colour which may darken as the develop. As the infestation develops symptoms include: weak stems, damage to growing parts, prevention of flowering and dead hearts.Stalk borers make a hole into the stem and feed inside these stems, which disrupts nutrient and water flow in the plant. The plants become stunted and produce maize cobs that are up to 30% smaller.	 sorghum Busseola fusca

G. graminicola is an anamorphic fungus which is identified as Colletotrichum graminicola in the teleomorphic phase. It is the anamorphic phase that causes anthracnose in many cereal species. While the main host of this disease is maize, it can also affect other cereals and grasses, such as sorghum, ryegrass, bluegrass, barley, wheat, and some cultivars of fescue where the production of fruiting bodies cause symptoms to appear in the host plant.  Corn anthracnose leaf blight is the most common stalk disease in maize and occurs most frequently in reduced-till or no-till fields.Symptoms can vary depending on which part of the growing season the corn is in.Early in the growing season, the main symptom is foliar leaf blight. This often appears as 1 inch (25 mm) long and 1⁄2 inch (13 mm) wide oval or spindle-shaped water-soaked lesions on the lower leaves of the plant. This tissue can become necrotic and has the potential to spread throughout the entire leaf, causing it to yellow and die. They are light brown in color, with margins that appear dark brown or purple. If this persists, black fruiting bodies will appear in the center of the lesion.The mid-season symptoms appear several weeks after corn produces tassels, when there will be a top die-back if the infection has spread throughout many parts of the plant. In this dieback, the entire plant will become necrotic and die, beginning at the tassel and working its way down the entire stalk to the lowest leaves.Late in the growing season, another major symptom of this disease appears: stalk rot. It can first be seen as a reflective black stripe on the internodes of the stalk, and can make the stalk soft, causing the plants to easily lodge in heavy precipitation or a wind event.	 sorghum Colletotrichum graminicola

Gibberella fujikuroi is most widely known for its disease producing capabilities in rice, but barley, millet, sugarcane and maize are also susceptible. In all infected plants, similar symptoms have been found, though rice has been most predominantly studied. The most telltale symptom of Bakanae is the tall, spindly look of the plant. This is a result of the gibberellins, or growth hormones, the fungus secretes. Infected plants are easy to pick out, then, as they often rise above the rest of the healthy plants with regularly secreted growth hormones.  However, it is also possible that stunting may occur, along with Chlorosis of the leaves of the plant, root lesions, or empty grains of plants grown to maturity.	 sorghum Gibberella fujikuroi var. subglutinans

One of the most harmful seed and soil borne pathogens, Macrophomina phaseolina is a fungus that infects nearly 500 plant species in more than 100 families. The hosts include: peanut, cabbage, pepper, chickpea, soybean, sunflower, sweet potato, alfalfa, sesame, potato, sorghum, wheat, and corn, among others. The identification of isolates of M. phaseolina is usually based on morphology and efforts to divide the pathogen into subspecies, but because there are wide intraspecific variations in the phenotype of the isolates, these criteria are often not reliable. The failure to correctly detect and identify M. phaseolina using conventional culture-based morphological techniques has led scientists to develop nucleic acid-based molecular approaches, such as highly sensitive and specific polymerase chain reaction-based methods. Researchers have also recently created species-specific oligonucleotide primers and digoxigenin-labeled probes in hopes of better identifying and detecting M. phaseolina.The pathogen M. phaseolina affects the fibrovascular system of the roots and basal internodes of its host, impeding the transport of water and nutrients to the upper parts of the plant. As a result, progressive wilting, premature dying, loss of vigor, and reduced yield are characteristic symptoms of M. phaseolina infection. The fungus also causes many diseases like damping off, seedling blight, collar rot, stem rot, charcoal rot, basal stem rot, and root rot. Although brown lesions may form on the hypocotyls or emerging seedlings, many symptoms occur during or after flowering, including grey discoloration of the stem and taproots, shredding of plant tissue in the stem and top of the taproot, and hollowing of the stem. Small black dots may form beneath the epidermis of the lower stem and in the taproot, giving the stems and roots a charcoal-sprinkled appearance. When the epidermis is removed, small and black microsclerotia (a sign of the disease) may be so numerous that they give a greyish-black tint to the plant tissue. In addition, reddish-brown discoloration and black streaks can form in the pith and vascular tissues of the root and stem.	 sorghum Macrophomina phaseolina

When looking for symptoms of MDMV in corn, one must also be aware of the plant’s growth stage as symptoms may affect the plant differently at various stages.  Young leaves, may experience chlorotic spotting which may eventually turn into a mosaic or mottle pattern (“Maize Dwarf Mosaic Virus,” n.d.).  Later in the growing season, the mosaic pattern may bleed into a general yellowing of the leaf and eventually areas of red streaks or blotches may appear if night time temperatures are consistently around 60 degrees Fahrenheit (Lipps & Mills, n.d.).  Plants affected later in their reproductive cycle may experience a slowing in ear development (“Maize Dwarf Mosaic Virus,” n.d.), while some plants may even become barren (Lipps & Mills, n.d.).  It is not uncommon for plants to have shortened upper internodes or an increase in tiller number (“Maize Dwarf Mosaic Virus,” n.d.).	 sorghum Maize dwarf mosaic virus

Peronosclerospora sorghi has a broad host range, particularly plants in the sorghum family. These host plants include Sorghum bicolor, or sorghum, Sorghum sudanense, or Sudan grass, and Sorghum halepense, or Johnsongrass. Its hosts also include Pinnisetum glaucum, or pearl millet, and Zea mays, or maize. When maize plants are infected as seedlings, the first symptom to appear is chlorosis of the leaves. As the plant grows, it often shows stunting, and necrotic lesions begin to form on the leaves. As the leaves continue to grow, a white, downy growth may develop in the necrotic lesions, especially on the underside of the leaves. This downy growth is the result of the production of conidia and conidiophores under the proper environmental conditions.Sorghum and maize express very similar symptoms. In sorghum, chlorosis of the seedlings is very common after infection. As the leaves get older, they can express white striping, which eventually leads to the necrosis of the white striped tissue. When the leaves die, they begin to become shredded in appearance, similar to hail damage. This symptom is associated with the production of oospores in the leaf tissue.If sorghum plants are young and produce conidia on their leaves, this type of infection often leads to the death of the plant. If the sorghum plants are older, the pathogen will often produce oospores in the leaves. Plants are usually capable of surviving this type of infection and will survive until maturity. The disease may cause the tassels and ears of maize plants to develop improperly or not form at all. This also occurs within the panicle of the sorghum plant.Key factors in diagnosing downy mildew on maize and sorghum caused by Peronosclerospora sorghi include chlorosis of the leaves, followed by white streaking of the leaves. The leaves could also have a white, downy growth on the underside of the leaf blade. The white streaked areas of leaves become necrotic over time, leading to a shredded leaf appearance. In the maturing plant, the reproductive structures do not form properly or do not form at all. This leads to a sterile plant.	 sorghum Peronosclerospora sorghi

Root lesion nematodes infect a great variety of hosts. Pratylenchus penetrans alone has over 350 host plants. They include agricultural crops such as soybeans, potatoes, corn, bananas, and wheat. The genus is found most often in corn. Signs of disease are similar in most plants and generally include necrotic lesions of the roots. The lesions can also be entrances for pathogenic bacteria and fungi, which produce secondary infections. Above ground the plant becomes stunted, chlorotic, and wilted, and it often dies. A crop field may be patchy as plants wither and die. Root lesion nematodes can cause significant yield losses.	 sorghum Pratylenchus

Pythium aphanidermatum is responsible for pre- and post-emergence damping off.  Pre-emergence damping off is when the seed is infected prior to germination.  This can result in poor or no germination, and is observable as a browning or rotting of the seed.  Post-emergence damping off takes place after germination and results in a thinning, water-soaked stem near the plant collar, which eventually causes the collapse of the plant.  P. aphanidermatum can also cause root rot.  Symptoms of root rot include stunted growth, chlorotic leaves, leaf drop, and wilting.  The infection begins at the root tip, and can cause the infected region to lose its protective outer layer, exposing the inner root to other pathogens	 sorghum Pythium aphanidermatum

Pythium graminicola infects a wide range of hosts, including: bent grass, turmeric, cotton, barley, wheat, rice, beans, peas, and sugarcane. In particular Pythium graminicola is an important pathogen of graminaceous plants. As with many Pythium diseases, the most common symptom of Pythium graminicola is root/seed rot, which can then cause damping off. However, Pythium graminicola can also infect above ground tissue causing stalk rot in maize, foot rot of beans, leaf blight of grasses and feeder root necrosis in rice, sugarcane and maize. Diagnosis of Pythium graminicola can be made through observation of the above symptoms and the presence of oomycete structures, such as sporangia.	 sorghum Pythium graminicola

The caterpillars mainly bore into rice stems or the base of the panicle. After infection, the stem becomes wilted causing deadheart. Panicle attack leads to panicle to be cut leading to state called whitehead. Symptoms are mostly similar to other stem borers and hence closer look required to control the attack.	 sorghum Sesamia inferens

Sporisorium reilianum causes the diseases maize head smut and sorghum head smut. This soil borne smut fungus has two formae speciales. S. reilianum f. sp. reilianum is specific to sorghum and S. reilianum f. sp. zeae is specific to maize. It is unknown why the two formae speciales cannot form spores on their respective non-favored hosts.Symptoms of the fungus are expressed on both the tassels of corn and sorghum as well as on the actual ear in the form of large smut galls. When the sorghum tassel is infected, the fragile gall membrane will have a range from just a few black spores to a large mass of black spores covering the tassel. The spores are a sign of the disease and are used for dispersal of the disease to other corn and sorghum plants. When the ear of the corn is infected, it looks very small and tear-drop shaped and seems as though it does not have a cob inside at all. The cob is replaced by white sori which are the structures that make and hold the spores of the fungus. If there is an infected tassel, it is likely that the ears will also have head smut.	 sorghum Sphacelotheca reiliana

Symptoms of sugarcane mosaic virus include intense mottling throughout the laminar region of the plant, characterized by discoloration of the plants leaves, and growth stunting. In maize, the infection occurs first in the youngest leaves with symptoms such as irregular, light or dark green mosaic coloring developing along the veins. The virus can result in severe yield loss of the infected host and the disease eventually leads to necrosis. Diagnosis of sugarcane mosaic virus is achieved first through recognizing the typical light green mosaic pattern of the infection, electron microscopy of leaf dips, as well as virus isolation and purification methods. One diagnosis technique being studied is the next-generation sequencing method (NGS) or sap inoculation, which was found to have a 90% success rate in a 2011 study. NGS could allow quick assessment of disease and be used for routine diagnosis against potential disease-causing agents.	 sorghum Sugarcane mosaic virus

The symptoms that plants exhibit in response to the pathogenicity of Xiphinema americanum are similar to those of other migratory ectoparasitic nematodes of roots. It is common to see poor growth and or stunting of the plant, yellowing or wilting of the foliage, and reduced root systems which can include root necrosis, lack of feeder or secondary roots, and occasional tufts of stubby rootlets.Young, shortleaved yellow pine trees with moderate swelling of roots with clusters of short, stubby branches were the first demonstration of X. americanum pathogenicity in 1955. X. americanum can also cause severe effects on foliage, sometimes causing chlorosis and complete defoliation as seen on Guatemalan coffee trees. The dagger nematode causes the devitalization of root tips and overall root death when they feed at the root tips and root sides of strawberry plants. Reddish-brown lesions that turn black and necrotic with time result at the sites of feeding, and result in reduced root systems and stunted tops.Xiphinema americanum is listed as a C-rated pest in California due to its wide host range of California crops. C-rated pests are widespread, and are of known economic or environmental detriment, according to The California Department of Food and Agriculture. Due to X. americanum's difficulty in maintaining high populations in frequently tilled soils (see Control), the dagger nematode is mainly an economic problem on biennial and perennial crops rather than annual crops (except for damage to emerging seedlings).	 sorghum Xiphinema americanum

Typical soybean foliage symptoms of BPMV include leaf mottling (if present), which is the appearance of yellow and green blotches on the leaf as well as leaf rugosity. Symptoms vary between different host species and virus strains. Mottling can be seen more severely on younger leaves with a distorted or blistery appearance. In stressful conditions such as hot weather and during the reproductive stages there are less symptoms. BPMV may also be a cause of green stem syndrome resulting in green stems and leaves while the pods and rest of the field has matured. Seed infected with BPMV can be discolored or mottled.All of these symptoms are difficult to differentiate from other viruses or pathogens, so seeing these symptoms does not necessarily guarantee the plant has BPMV, lab testing can confirm. There can also be a combination of pathogens infecting the plant which can affect the severity of symptoms. Insect activity, especially of the bean leaf beetle or other known vectors, can increase the chance of BPMV presence.(University of Minnesota Extension, 2016)	 soybean Bean pod mottle virus

Phialophora gregata’s infection of a soybean plant is accompanied by browning of the plant’s vascular and pith tissues. The plant often exhibits chlorosis and necrosis, as well as leaf browning.  Wilting and defoliation are also known to occur.Signs of infection often go unnoticed until reproductive stages of a plant’s life cycle. They can be diagnosed earlier on by opening the stem and visualizing the pathogen. One can visualize signs by cutting open the stem in early stages of infection, but symptoms do not become apparent until after the soybean pod formation.Depending on which strain infects the plant, and what the environmental conditions are, the effect is more or less potent. Genotype A causes browning of stems as well as foliar symptoms such as interveinal chlorosis, defoliation and wilting. Symptomatic leaves have a shriveled appearance, but remain attached to the stem.  Genotype B causes only browning of stems.Secondary symptoms of brown stem rot are stunting, premature death, decrease in seed number, reduced pod set, and decrease in seed size.Disease from P. gregata is easily confused with Fusarium wilt, due to the similar vascular symptoms observed in both. The diseases could be differentiated through growth on isolation media. The two diseases can be further distinguished by splitting the stems. A split stem with Fusarium infection would have tan or light brown discoloration in the cortex and a normal white pith, while a split stem with P. gregata would have a discolored, reddish brown pith. Root rot and blue masses of spores are symptoms only caused by Fusarium.	 soybean Cephalosporium gregatum

Seed: The disease on the host soybean itself can be determined by a light activated red perlene quinon, cercosporin, with a molecular weight of 534. Purple seed stain by Cercospora can be determined by a variety of factors. First, infected seeds have spots that are usually pink or purple. The size can be from minuscule to covering the whole seed (Li 2019). The coloration will be from the hilum area.  Germination and seedling size may be delayed after 50% of the seed is covered. They may also have lower oil and higher protein.Cotyledons: Cotyledons will shrivel and fall off.Stems: Stems will have red deep lesions about ¼ inch in size.Leaves: Young leaves on top and bottom will have reddish purple lesions from minuscule to ½ inch in size. The leaf itself will become purple, described as a dark bronzing.  Severely infected upper leaves will fall off (Giesler).	 soybean Cercospora kikuchii

The soybean is the main host of this pathogen. When the pathogen occurs on soybeans, it causes small leaf lesions. These lesions, mostly found on upper leaf surfaces, are irregularly circular and consist of red-brown to purple colored borders. The inside of the lesion is often a gray to tan color. When the lesions mature, they are paper thin and the infected leaves appear tattered and weathered. The disease can lead to premature defoliation. The Frogeye leaf spot can also form on the pods and stems of highly susceptible cultivars. Oval and circular lesions that form on the pods and stems have dark-colored margins and light gray to reddish-brown color on the inside. If the pod becomes infected, the seeds can also become infected but may be symptomless. If they do show symptoms, gray blotches form on the seed and a cracked seed coat often occurs.The plant is most susceptible to an infection when the leaves are young and expanding or if the leaves are old and senescing. With this range of susceptibility, the disease can occur several times throughout the plant canopy if the environment is ideal for the pathogen at each leaf layer emergence. This leads to a layered section of disease on one plant.  Within a field, the disease often occurs in patches either small or large throughout the field. During Stages R1-R6 in soybeans and after a period of frequent rainfall is the best time to scout on frogeye leaf spot. This disease is typically present mid to late season.	 soybean Cercospora sojina

Symptoms appear as dark red to black lesions on the lower surface of the leaves. They appear as sunken lesions surrounded by a raised brown-black border on the pods, petioles and stems. Very small black fruiting bodies of the fungus are usually visible in older lesions.Other symptoms include shedding of leaves, flower and pod abortion.Infected seeds appear discoloured with brown or grey staining or dark flecks.	 soybean Colletotrichum dematium f. truncatum

Symptoms appear as dark red to black lesions on the lower surface of the leaves. They appear as sunken lesions surrounded by a raised brown-black border on the pods, petioles and stems. Very small black fruiting bodies of the fungus are usually visible in older lesions.Other symptoms include shedding of leaves, flower and pod abortion.Infected seeds appear discoloured with brown or grey staining or dark flecks.	 soybean Colletotrichum truncatum

Curtobacterium flaccumfacien is a bacterial wilt pathogen. The hallmark symptoms of bacterial wilt are leaf and petiole wilting. Chlorosis of the leaf and tissue occurs due to the lack of water transport. C. flaccumfaciens has a wide host range not limited to kidney beans, soybeans, tulips, and tomatoes.  The species is separated into pathovars based on host range and symptoms.One of the economically important pathovars is C. f. pv. flaccumfaciens. This pathovar produces a bacterial wilt and its primary host range is the genus Phaseolus (beans), but the pathogen can infect many other species of the same family (Fabaceae). In beans, the symptoms can be devastating to the crop yield. These beans have severe foliage wilting and chlorosis.One ornamental example is C. f. pv. oortii. The primary host are plants from the genus Tulipa (tulips). Although the host range differs, the symptoms are relatively similar. During flowering, typical symptoms of dehydration are observed. Similarly to beans, the tulips get wilt. In severe cases, the plant eventually fails to recover from wilting and dies.	 soybean Curtobacterium flaccumfaciens

Soybean (Glycine max) is the most economically important host of soybean stem canker caused by Diaporthe phaseolorum var. caulivora.  Since the early 1940s, Stem Canker was a prevalent disease in the upper Midwest. Soybean host plant susceptibility has been researched since the early 1950s, bringing light to the need for developing resistant varieties. Botanist AA Hildebrand ran a varietal selection experiment to determine susceptible varieties in northern climates.  Successful removal of susceptible cultivars “Hawkeye” and “Blackhawk” greatly reduced the impact of this disease.  In the past 30 years, successful breeding for resistant varieties has greatly reduced the significance of this disease in certain parts of the country, however sporadic incidences of the disease still occur. In soybean, the main factor affecting disease susceptibility is the presence or absence of resistance genes in specific cultivars.Along with soybean, many common weed species have been studied as potential hosts. Investigations have identified 13 weed species for soybean stem canker when inoculated directly with ascospores. Inoculation success to these weeds species was found in greenhouse experiments though outdoor trials were not as successful. More recently, many weed species, such as black nightshade, curly dock, and morning glory, have been confirmed as susceptible hosts, yet few show symptomology of the disease until plant death. Weed species as host for this disease are of particular interest because of their potential to act as an inoculum for the disease on soybean.  Disease symptoms occur primarily on the stems, leaves and can lead to whole plant symptoms. Reddish brown lesions on the lower stem of soybean plants progress into brown cankers.  In some cases, the disease can spread to all parts of the stem.  Stem girdling can result in premature plant death. Grey streaking along the lower stem and taproot has also been observed.  Studies suggest a toxin may influence the development and symptomology of stem canker. Leaf symptoms include interveinal chlorosis and necrosis during early reproductive stages. Leaves eventually dry and fall off the plant as the disease worsens. Stem canker has similar symptomology as brown stem rot, fusarium wilt, phytopthora stem rot, sudden death syndrome, tobacco streak virus, and sclerotinia stem rot, which can make distinguishing this disease particularly difficult.  Stem canker can be differentiated primarily by its long dark red or brown canker that can extend over multiple nodes. Inside the stem, discoloration is localized to areas near the canker or lesion.	 soybean Diaporthe phaseolorum var. caulivora

One of the most harmful seed and soil borne pathogens, Macrophomina phaseolina is a fungus that infects nearly 500 plant species in more than 100 families. The hosts include: peanut, cabbage, pepper, chickpea, soybean, sunflower, sweet potato, alfalfa, sesame, potato, sorghum, wheat, and corn, among others. The identification of isolates of M. phaseolina is usually based on morphology and efforts to divide the pathogen into subspecies, but because there are wide intraspecific variations in the phenotype of the isolates, these criteria are often not reliable. The failure to correctly detect and identify M. phaseolina using conventional culture-based morphological techniques has led scientists to develop nucleic acid-based molecular approaches, such as highly sensitive and specific polymerase chain reaction-based methods. Researchers have also recently created species-specific oligonucleotide primers and digoxigenin-labeled probes in hopes of better identifying and detecting M. phaseolina.The pathogen M. phaseolina affects the fibrovascular system of the roots and basal internodes of its host, impeding the transport of water and nutrients to the upper parts of the plant. As a result, progressive wilting, premature dying, loss of vigor, and reduced yield are characteristic symptoms of M. phaseolina infection. The fungus also causes many diseases like damping off, seedling blight, collar rot, stem rot, charcoal rot, basal stem rot, and root rot. Although brown lesions may form on the hypocotyls or emerging seedlings, many symptoms occur during or after flowering, including grey discoloration of the stem and taproots, shredding of plant tissue in the stem and top of the taproot, and hollowing of the stem. Small black dots may form beneath the epidermis of the lower stem and in the taproot, giving the stems and roots a charcoal-sprinkled appearance. When the epidermis is removed, small and black microsclerotia (a sign of the disease) may be so numerous that they give a greyish-black tint to the plant tissue. In addition, reddish-brown discoloration and black streaks can form in the pith and vascular tissues of the root and stem.	 soybean Macrophomina phaseolina

These nematodes cause symptoms both on leaves and roots. Foliar symptoms of root-knot disease may be expressed at any time during the growing season. These symptoms of nematode damage on peanut plants range from stunting, yellowing, wilting and even plant death.  Ferris (1999–2012), also reported that nematodes cause yellowing; mid-day wilting; symptoms of water and nutrient stress; and sometimes death, especially if the nematode is interacting with other organisms.  They can appear in a peanut crop beginning about 100 days after planting or after periods of dry hot weather.  Areas of root-knot nematode damaged peanut are usually round to oblong in shape, and rows of infected plants may never overlap as those of healthy plants. It is common for plants to wilt and eventually die in areas where nematode populations are high.Root symptoms are similar to those caused by all nematodes including a reduction in number of feeder roots and root stunting, but root knot nematodes cause unique symptoms on roots and pods. Nematodes cause galls (knots) to form on both roots and pods of the peanut, and these galls are highly diagnostic for root-knot nematode presence compared to other nematodes affecting peanut. The presence of galls on roots, pegs and pods appears as single or multiple wart-like growths that may or may not be discolored. As root knot nematode infection progresses, and generally later in the season, secondary root and pod rots cause further damage and eventual death of the plants.Many soil-borne fungi, especially Sclerotium rolfsii (which causes southern stem rot) and Sclerotinia minor (which causes Sclerotinia blight), will infect the weakened peanut plants and cause more plant death. Root knot nematode infection of the peg weakens the peg so that it breaks during harvest, contributing to additional yield losses because the detached pods are then left in the soil. Infection of the pods leads to a decline in yield quality.The damage threshold, or the initial nematode population density at which peanut yields begin to decline, has been reported to be in the range of 1 to 10 eggs and second stage juveniles per 500 cm3 soil for M. arenaria on susceptible peanut cultivars.	 soybean Meloidogyne arenaria

Meloidogyne hapla (Northern root-knot nematode) has a wide host range. It is polyphagous and affects over 550 crops and weeds. It feeds on many agricultural and horticultural plants (vegetables, fruits, ornamentals), but few grasses or cereals. A list of known hosts can be found at the bottom of this page.Symptoms can be seen in the roots, leaves, and the overall growth of the infected plant. In roots, there may be stunting, wilting, and the formation of abnormal growths called galls. Galls are usually small and spherical and are situated near many small roots. They are formed when the nematode enters the root and releases chemicals to enlarge root cells, on which they feed. The roots become defective and therefore cannot transport water and nutrients properly. The end result is stunted, wilted, and yellowing plants (characteristic of nutrient deficiency) and a decreased yield. Severity of the symptoms depends on nematode population density and host plant species and cultivar. As the number of nematodes increase in the area, the number and size of root galls increase as well. Each crop responds to Meloidogyne hapla differently. Carrots typically undergo severe forking with galling of the roots, lettuce have beadlike galls, and grasses and onions have small and barely noticeable galls and symptoms. In potato tubers (special stems), brown spots will appear on areas of the tubers where the females have laid their eggs.If a field has a patchy distribution of symptoms, it usually indicates the presence of nematodes. Most nematodes are not usually distributed uniformly in the soil. To correctly identify Meloidogyne hapla, the infected plant should be sent to a lab for a proper diagnosis. One common method is perineal pattern analysis where the perineum of the female nematode (area between the anus and the vulva) is examined for a specific pattern in ridges and annulations. Another common method is analyzing isozyme (different variations of the same enzyme produced by different genes) electrophoretic profiles using esterase and malate dehydrogenase.	 soybean Meloidogyne hapla

Plants affected by M. incognita present above ground symptoms of water- and nutrient-stress, yellowing, wilting, and stunting. Below ground galling on roots, bulbs, tubers is the typical symptom. Plant death may occur in high infestation level.	 soybean Meloidogyne incognita

Because there are so many different hosts for this pathogen, the symptoms are very variable. Common symptoms include abnormal leaf color, abnormal leaf form, wilting leaves, galls, swollen roots, reduced root system, dwarfing and senescence (Cabi 2018). This pathogen does the most damage when present in light soils with hot weather conditions (Alford 2012).	 soybean Meloidogyne javanica

Mungbean yellow mosaic disease is characterized by a bright yellow mosaic on the leaves of infected plants and causes significant losses to mungbean (Vigna radiata) crops in India.	 soybean Mung bean yellow mosaic virus

Mycoleptodiscus terrestris is an ascomycete with a wide host range that includes several types of popular aquatic weeds that have become invasive in their problem states – mainly southern states. But aside from them the pathogen also infects several types of alfalfa and legumes and have been seen to infect plants all the way up to Minnesota. This disease is known to cause several symptoms in affected hosts including: leaf spot, crowning, and lots of root rot. These symptoms are what cause major yield loss and is why this pathogen is so important to our agricultural systems.	 soybean Mycoleptodiscus terrestris

The symptoms of the virus in peanuts appear as irregular dark islands on young leaves. The symptoms are not as clear on older leaves and thus can be easily missed even when the virus is in epidemic proportions in the field.In infected plant cells, the virus makes characteristic potyvirus cylindrical inclusions.  that are visible in the light microscope with proper staining.	 soybean Peanut mottle virus

The most visible symptoms of P. manshurica are pale green to light yellow spots that enlarge into pale to bright yellow lesions of variable size and shape. Lesions later turn grayish-brown to dark-brown with a yellowish-green margin that may eventually become entirely brown. Tufts of grayish to pale-colored sporangiophores on the underside of leaves easily distinguish the infection from other foliar diseases.	 soybean Peronospora manshurica

The disease forms tan to dark-brown or reddish-brown lesions with one to many prominent, globe-like orifices. Urediniospores form from these pores. At initial stages, small yellow spots are formed on the surface of the leaf. These spots may be better observed using assistance of a light source. As the disease progresses, lesions start to form on the leaves, stems, pod, and petioles. Lesions are initially small, turning from gray to tan or brown as they increase in size and the disease gets more severe. Soon volcano-shaped marks are noticed in the lesions.	 soybean Phakopsora pachyrhizi

Phialophora gregata’s infection of a soybean plant is accompanied by browning of the plant’s vascular and pith tissues. The plant often exhibits chlorosis and necrosis, as well as leaf browning.  Wilting and defoliation are also known to occur.Signs of infection often go unnoticed until reproductive stages of a plant’s life cycle. They can be diagnosed earlier on by opening the stem and visualizing the pathogen. One can visualize signs by cutting open the stem in early stages of infection, but symptoms do not become apparent until after the soybean pod formation.Depending on which strain infects the plant, and what the environmental conditions are, the effect is more or less potent. Genotype A causes browning of stems as well as foliar symptoms such as interveinal chlorosis, defoliation and wilting. Symptomatic leaves have a shriveled appearance, but remain attached to the stem.  Genotype B causes only browning of stems.Secondary symptoms of brown stem rot are stunting, premature death, decrease in seed number, reduced pod set, and decrease in seed size.Disease from P. gregata is easily confused with Fusarium wilt, due to the similar vascular symptoms observed in both. The diseases could be differentiated through growth on isolation media. The two diseases can be further distinguished by splitting the stems. A split stem with Fusarium infection would have tan or light brown discoloration in the cortex and a normal white pith, while a split stem with P. gregata would have a discolored, reddish brown pith. Root rot and blue masses of spores are symptoms only caused by Fusarium.	 soybean Phialophora gregata

Diaporthe phaseolorum var. sojae can infect any above ground parts of the plant; the disease may be present without showing any symptoms.Early-season infection typically takes place without showing any symptoms.Mid-season symptoms appear as tiny black dots (pycnidia) on fallen leaves or abscised petioles.Late-season symptoms (pycnidia) appear on dead stems, branches and seed pods. Heavily infected seeds will often fail to germinate.Visual symptoms include:•	Light brown spots on cotyledons or lower stems,•	Small black dots (pycnidia) appear in rows along necrotic stem, branch, and petiole tissue (mature leaf tissue is not commonly infected),•	Infected seeds exhibiting: cracked seed coats, shriveling, flattening, grey mold, or black spots (pycnidia) on the seed coat.	 soybean Phomopsis sojae

Causes Phyllosticta Leaf Spot on soybeans. Forms circular lesions with reddish-brown borders and light brown center. The center of the lesion will drop out over time. Visible pycnidia can be seen in older lesions. A common consequence of infection is reduced yield from the damaged leaves.	 soybean Phyllosticta sojaecola

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 soybean Phymatotrichopsis omnivora

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 soybean Phymatotrichum omnivorum

Phytophthora sojae infects soybean plants (Glycine max) and many members of the genus Lupinus. They have the ability to infect soybeans at any point during its development process, including during seed development.They cause seed decay and pre- and postemergence damping off when the soil is flooded after planting. Seedling roots may appear to have light brown soft rot as soon as the seedlings begin to sprout from the soil.It also causes root and stem rot and the severity of the infection depends on how susceptible or tolerant the plant is to pathogens. In a highly-tolerant soybean plant, the root rot will simply cause the plant to be stunted and slightly chlorotic instead of killing the plant. In contrast, infection of a low-tolerant soybean plant will most likely lead to the death of the plant. Infection initiates in the roots and then progresses several nodes up the stem, turning the root and the stem brown and the leaves yellow. As the pathogen progresses, the entire plant transforms into an orange-brown color. The wilted leaves bend towards the plant and remain attached as it succumbs to death.Foliar blight is also a symptom of Phytophthora sojae, especially when the plant has recently experienced heavy rain. The soybean plant has an age-related resistance in which the older leaves are not susceptible to foliar blight.Soybean fields infected with Phytophthora sojae can be easily spotted by looking for stunted soybean plants or looking for empty patches where the soybean seed had been planted.Microscopic identification of an oospore that measure around 40 micrometers in diameter from a soybean plant sample is a definite sign of Phytophthora sojae. Oospores, in general, measure around 20-45 micrometers in diameter and have very thick cellulose cell walls for overwintering.	 soybean Phytophthora sojae

Root lesion nematodes infect a great variety of hosts. Pratylenchus penetrans alone has over 350 host plants. They include agricultural crops such as soybeans, potatoes, corn, bananas, and wheat. The genus is found most often in corn. Signs of disease are similar in most plants and generally include necrotic lesions of the roots. The lesions can also be entrances for pathogenic bacteria and fungi, which produce secondary infections. Above ground the plant becomes stunted, chlorotic, and wilted, and it often dies. A crop field may be patchy as plants wither and die. Root lesion nematodes can cause significant yield losses.	 soybean Pratylenchus

Pythium aphanidermatum is responsible for pre- and post-emergence damping off.  Pre-emergence damping off is when the seed is infected prior to germination.  This can result in poor or no germination, and is observable as a browning or rotting of the seed.  Post-emergence damping off takes place after germination and results in a thinning, water-soaked stem near the plant collar, which eventually causes the collapse of the plant.  P. aphanidermatum can also cause root rot.  Symptoms of root rot include stunted growth, chlorotic leaves, leaf drop, and wilting.  The infection begins at the root tip, and can cause the infected region to lose its protective outer layer, exposing the inner root to other pathogens	 soybean Pythium aphanidermatum

Pythium irregulare is an oomycete that causes pre- and post-emergence damping off, as well as root rot. Pre-emergence damping off occurs when P. irregulare infects seeds before they emerge, causing them to rot and turn brown, thus preventing successful growth. Alternatively, post-emergence damping off occurs when the oomycete infects just after the seed has germinated. This usually causes infection in the roots and stem which appears as water soaking and necrosis. Depending on the severity, plants may collapse or be severely stunted. In plants that are older and more established, P. irregulare causes root rot. This will initially cause necrotic lesions, which leads to chlorosis, reduced yield, poor growth, and stunting due to inadequate water and nutrient acquisition by the roots. Additionally, P. irregulare is often found coinfecting with other Pythium species. All three of these diseases caused by P. irregulare can be caused by other pathogens as well, so a disease diagnosis is not necessarily indicative of P. irregulareIn order to identify Pythium irregulare it is necessary to isolate the organism and observe it microscopically. First, it is important to identify that the microbe is an oomycete by looking for characteristics that are specific to oomycetes, such as coenocytic hyphae, zoospores, and oospores. After that, one can identify the microbe as being in the genera Pythium by observing disease symptoms, host range, as well as the presence of a vesicle, where zoospores form, which is attached to the sporangia. In contrast, most other oomycetes do not have a vesicle and the zoospores form in the sporangia. Finally, once the genera has been identified, it is helpful to use a dichotomous key to identify the species. Some of the key identifiers for P. irregulare include oogonia with irregular shaped, cylindrical projections, sporangia that occur singly, sporangia that are not filamentous, and oogonia smaller than 30 μm. There are also many genomic tests that can be done to determine species based on specific DNA markers. It is also important to note that many diagnosticians do not identify to the species level because it can be difficult to find all necessary microscopic structures and many management techniques can be applied to all Pythium species.Pythium irregulare has a very broad host range, including many agronomically and horticulturally important crops and is found on every continent except for Antarctica. P. irregulare infects over 200 species, including cereals, legumes, fruits, vegetables, and ornamentals. It differs from many other Pythium species in that it prefers cooler environments. A moist environment is also necessary for disease, which aids motility of spores. It is commonly found in both greenhouses and fields.	 soybean Pythium irregulare

Pythium myriotylum is a causal agent of soft root rot in economically important crops including peanuts, tomato, rye, wheat, oats, cucumber, soybean, sorghum, tobacco, cabbage, and maize. Pythium myriotylum causes pre-emergence damping off, it infects the seed and causes it to rot before plant growth.  This causes the plant seedling to become shriveled, soft, and brown. In a study done on soybeans, some symptoms that were seen were rotting of roots, diseased seedlings in the field, plus rotting and blight of seedlings. Pythium myriotylum can also cause post-emergence damping off in peanuts, resulting in discoloration of the seedlings and roots along with a water-soaked appearance in certain areas, these symptoms usually result in the death of the seedlings.	 soybean Pythium myriotylum

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 soybean Rhizoctonia solani

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 soybean Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

Acute soy allergy can have fast onset (from seconds to one hour) or slow onset (from hours to several days), depending on the conditions of exposure, whereas long-term soy allergy may begin in infancy with reaction to soy-based infant formula. Although most children outgrow soy allergy, some may have the allergy persist into adulthood.	 soybean Soy allergy

In terms of economic damage, soybean is the most important host plant for SMV. However, plants belonging to the families Fabaceae/Leguminosae (including G. max, Strongylodon macrobotrys and others), Amaranthaceae (Chenopodiaceae), Passifloraceae, Scrophulariaceae, Cucurbitaceae, Solanaceae, and Caricaceae have also been reported infected with SMV. Fabaceae has been shown to have the largest number of genera infected by SMV. Hosts differ in susceptibility depending on the viral strain and latent infection has been reported in several hosts. Determined based on virulence, SMV has seven strain groupings in the United States (G1–G7) while in China there are 22 strain groups (SC1–SC22). Symptoms are usually more obvious on young, rapidly growing leaves and are variable depending on the host genotype, virus strain, plant age at the moment of infection and the environment. Leaves are the tissue where the viral infection is localized and where the infection starts. Macroscopic symptoms can range from apparently asymptomatic plants to severely mottled and deformed leaves. Most of the infected cultivars become slightly stunted and show fewer pods that are sometimes dwarfed and flattened, without hairs and seeds. Trifoliate leaves show distinct mosaic and mottling symptoms with light and dark green areas that later can become raised or blistered along the main veins. Chlorosis has also been reported as a symptom of SMV infection especially between the dark green areas. Leaves can appear curly or waved and some cultivars show necrotic local lesions that can later merge into veinal necrosis followed by yellowing and leaf abscission. Some strains can cause severe stunting, systemic necrosis, leaf yellowing, petiole and stem necrosis, terminal necrosis and defoliation leading to the death of the plant due to systemic spread of the viral infection.Seeds can also show symptoms of viral infection with SMV showing a brown or black mottle that is thought to be associated with suppression of posttranscriptional gene silencing of chalcone synthase by a silencing suppressor protein encoded by SMV. Germination and size of the seeds is considerably reduced as compared with healthy plants' seeds. Mottling does not indicate that the virus is present in seeds as not all mottled seeds contain virus and not all seeds from virus infected plants are mottled.Symptoms are sometimes hard to differentiate when temperatures are above 30 °C (86 °F) and can also be confused with growth regulator herbicide damage where the leaves elongate. Rugosity is most severe in plants grown in temperatures of around 18 °C (64 °F), while general symptoms are less severe at 24–25 °C (75–77 °F). Temperature also influences the incubation period and the time between infection and symptom appearance that ranges from 4 days at 29.5 °C (85 °F) to 14 days at 18.5 °C (65 °F). Additionally, SMV appears to have a synergistic interaction with Bean Pod Mottle Virus (BPMV) as plants infected with both viruses show drastically more severe symptoms than plants infected with only one virus. SMV and BPMV also interact in a different way: Either one will predispose soy plants to Phomopsis spp. infection.	 soybean Soybean mosaic virus

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 soybean Thanatephorus cucumeris

TSV has been reported worldwide in North and South America, Europe, India, Japan, Australia, New Zealand and South America. TSV has a wide host range including both monocots and dicots.  Economically important crop hosts include peanuts, sunflower, soybean, cranberry, cotton, chickpea and mung beans.  As with many plant viruses, diagnosis is very difficult because TSV has very wide host range and has different effects depending on the host being infected. Symptoms of TSV may include black streaks on stems and leaves, stunted growth, chlorosis, leaf mosaic, lodging, and deformed growing tips, to name a few. On tobacco plants, TSV causes chlorosis, with a unique pattern of white or dark necrotic leaf tissue close to the veins of the leaf.  As its name implies, necrotic streaks are found on leaf veins of infected plants.  Symptoms are strongly influenced by temperature.  For example, plants experiencing a temperature of 20° Celsius will develop small necrotic spots while at temperatures above 30° Celsius, necrotic spots will become large necrotic arcs. Symptoms are not sufficient to correctly identify TSV - serology and PCR techniques are required.	 soybean Tobacco streak virus

The economically important host of Albugo occidentalis is spinach (Spinacia oleracea); although the oomycete has also been reported to affect plants of the genus Chenopodium, the genus including the crop plant quinoa. This pathogen causes white rust or white blister of spinach. It is unrelated to the basidiomycete rusts biologically, but appears somewhat similar on the surface of the leaf, sometimes causing the plant to form white or yellow blister-like pustules on leaves. The early stage, a milder chlorosis, is found on the on abaxial face, but if the white rust is allowed to thrive, it can blister and be visible on the adaxial surface as well.	 spinach Albugo occidentalis

Aster yellows affects a long list of plant species including native plants, annual flowering plants, ornamentals, weeds, and vegetables crops. The largest family affected is the Asteraceae, and ornamental plants commonly infected are asters, marigolds, coreopsis, sunflowers, and purple coneflower.  Regarding vegetable crops, onion, lettuce, celery, and carrot are affected with the latter suffering the greatest losses.The range of characteristic symptoms varies by the phytoplasma strain, timing of infection, plant species, temperature, age, and size of the plant. The symptoms can be mistaken for herbicide damage or virus symptoms.  They include vein clearing until the entire leaf becomes chlorotic, stunting, deformation, virescence (greening of flowers), phyllody (development of leaf-like flower petals), reddening of foliage, reduced root system, and sterility.  Aster yellows does not typically kill perennial host plants. The symptoms caused by the disease are exacerbated by hot climates while some plants in cooler climates may be asymptomatic.Characteristic symptoms specific to the carrot include initial vein clearing and chlorosis, followed by production of many adventitious shoots, with the tops looking like a witches’-broom.  The internodes of such shoots are short as are the leaf petioles.  Young leaves are smaller and dry up while the petioles of older leaves twist and break off.  Any remaining older leaves turn bronze or red late in the season.  Floral parts are deformed and roots are smaller, abnormally shaped, and have woolly secondary roots.  The carrot roots are predisposed to soft rots in the field and storage and taste unpleasant to the consumer.	 spinach Aster yellows

An irregular browning leaf margin which may or may not be bordered by a pale halo.Symptoms re-occur every year, spreading throughout the tree crown, eventually killing the host plant.	 spinach Bacterial leaf spot

There are a variety of hosts including but not limited to; banana, beans, cabbage, carrot, cassava, coffee, corn, cotton, onion, other crucifers, pepper, potato, sweet potato and tomato. Pandanus conoideus and karuka (Pandanus julianettii) get bacterial soft rot and necrosis on the leaves from Pectobacterium carotovorum subsp. carotovorum. For each host there are different symptoms displayed. Most symptoms are along the lines of watery and soft decay of the tissue. Cabbage and crucifers' symptoms start where the tissue makes contact with the soil. Often there is a change in color and in the case of a carrot, the whole taproot can be decayed leaving just the epidermis. Sweet potatoes show clear lesions that grow rapidly leaving a recognizable watery and soft, oozy tissue where only the peel remains intact.Potatoes experience a cream to tan colored tuber that becomes very soft and watery. A characteristic black border separates the diseased area and the healthy tissue. Only when the secondary organism invades the infected tissue does that decay become slimy with a foul odor. Like the carrot, the whole tuber can be consumed leaving just the epidermis in the soil. The foliage becomes weak and chlorotic with upward turned leaves and lesions on the stem. The stem also rots and becomes mushy with its colorless or brown lesions.	 spinach Bacterial soft rot

Plants that are infected will tend to display early symptoms within 5 days. The BCTV causes many symptoms including:Vein swelling (the earliest and most common symptom)Leaf curlingYellowing of leaves with purple veinsNecrosis and hyperplasia of the phloemFruit deformationPremature fruit ripeningReduced fruit quality and yieldStuntingDeath of young seedlings	 spinach Beet curly top virus

Hosts of Cercospora beticola include sugar beets (Beta vulgaris), swiss chard (Beta vulgaris L. subsp. cicla) and other leafy greens. Symptoms include the random distribution of spots with brownish red rings which eventually cause leaf collapse. Older leaves will have spots of larger diameters as rings grow outward. Conidia are not observable by the unaided eye	 spinach Cercospora beticola

This virus was first characterized in cucumbers (Cucumis sativus) showing mosaic symptoms in 1934, hence the name Cucumber mosaic. Since then, it has been found to infect a great variety of other plants. These include other vegetables such as squash, melons, peppers, eggplants, tomatoes, beans, carrots, celery, lettuce, spinach, beets, many ornamentals and bedding plants, such as Narcissus, and various weeds. Its presence has been confirmed on every continent of the world, including Antarctica.Symptoms seen with this virus include leaf mosaic or mottling (Fig. 1), yellowing, ringspots, stunting, and leaf, flower and fruit distortion. CMV also induces a type of symptom on leaves known as the "shoestring" effect on many host species. This effect causes young leaves to appear narrow and the entire plant to be stunted.Specifically, CMV can cause cucumbers to turn pale and bumpy. The leaves of these plants turn mosaic and their rugosity is often changed, making leaves wrinkled and misshapen. Growth of these plants is usually also stunted and produces few flowers. Often, cucumber fruits are oddly shaped, appear gray, and tested bitter. These appearances lead to them being referred to as "white pickles".Tomato plants are usually stunted and have poorly shaped leaves, or "fernleaf", when infected by CMV. Also certain strains of CMV can cause partial or total crop loss. CMV in peppers causes slightly different symptoms than the previously mentioned. Pepper plants often have severe foliar damage, shown as mosaic and necrotic rings. Often the peppers themselves are misshapen and contain chlorotic rings and spots. In celery, CMV causes streaking and spotting and can be often confused with symptoms of the celery mosaic virus. Symptoms of CMV in lettuce, such as chlorosis, plant stunting and often do not properly head, can be very similar to those of lettuce mosaic virus.CMV has also been identified in a lesser extent to a number of plant species. It is found to be a minor virus infecting Allium crops. The virus infection causes extensive malformation on garlic plants, and mild malformation to severe necrotic streaks on onion leaves. The severe damages on garlic plants and difficulty of aphids transmission of garlic isolate, were possible causal for the rare CMV on garlic. Genetically, the two onion isolates from Turkey (CMV-14.3Po and CMV-15.5Po) are highly similar to others isolated from various plant species in Mediterranean, European, and East Asian countries. CMV was also detected on American beautyberry, an important wildlife and pollinator food source plant native to North America.In plant tissue this virus makes characteristic viral inclusion bodies which can be diagnostic. They are hexagonal in shape (Fig. 2) and stain both in a protein stain and a nucleic acid stain. The inclusions can also be rhomboidal, may appear hollow (Fig. 2) and can form larger aggregates. The inclusions are not uniformly distributed and can be found in epidermal (Fig. 2), mesophyll, and stomatal cells. These inclusions are made up of virus particles.			 spinach Cucumber mosaic virus

This species is reported to be pathogenic on grandiflora petunia (Petunia × atkinsiana). It causes root rot, shoot rot and shanking in tulips. It also infects blue daze (Evolvulus glomeratus), dusty miller (Jacobaea maritima), Barberton daisy (Gerbera jamesonii), and garden verbena (Verbena × hybrida). Like its relative Phytophtora cambivora, it can cause ink disease of chestnuts (Castanea sativa).The species is a cause of foot rot in tomatoes, causing discoloration and lesion in the stem. Progression of lesions leads to girdling, root system rot and plant collapse. Foliage will not be affected until plant stem has become girdled.	 spinach Phytophthora cryptogea

Root lesion nematodes infect a great variety of hosts. Pratylenchus penetrans alone has over 350 host plants. They include agricultural crops such as soybeans, potatoes, corn, bananas, and wheat. The genus is found most often in corn. Signs of disease are similar in most plants and generally include necrotic lesions of the roots. The lesions can also be entrances for pathogenic bacteria and fungi, which produce secondary infections. Above ground the plant becomes stunted, chlorotic, and wilted, and it often dies. A crop field may be patchy as plants wither and die. Root lesion nematodes can cause significant yield losses.	 spinach Pratylenchus

Pythium aphanidermatum is responsible for pre- and post-emergence damping off.  Pre-emergence damping off is when the seed is infected prior to germination.  This can result in poor or no germination, and is observable as a browning or rotting of the seed.  Post-emergence damping off takes place after germination and results in a thinning, water-soaked stem near the plant collar, which eventually causes the collapse of the plant.  P. aphanidermatum can also cause root rot.  Symptoms of root rot include stunted growth, chlorotic leaves, leaf drop, and wilting.  The infection begins at the root tip, and can cause the infected region to lose its protective outer layer, exposing the inner root to other pathogens	 spinach Pythium aphanidermatum

Pythium irregulare is an oomycete that causes pre- and post-emergence damping off, as well as root rot. Pre-emergence damping off occurs when P. irregulare infects seeds before they emerge, causing them to rot and turn brown, thus preventing successful growth. Alternatively, post-emergence damping off occurs when the oomycete infects just after the seed has germinated. This usually causes infection in the roots and stem which appears as water soaking and necrosis. Depending on the severity, plants may collapse or be severely stunted. In plants that are older and more established, P. irregulare causes root rot. This will initially cause necrotic lesions, which leads to chlorosis, reduced yield, poor growth, and stunting due to inadequate water and nutrient acquisition by the roots. Additionally, P. irregulare is often found coinfecting with other Pythium species. All three of these diseases caused by P. irregulare can be caused by other pathogens as well, so a disease diagnosis is not necessarily indicative of P. irregulareIn order to identify Pythium irregulare it is necessary to isolate the organism and observe it microscopically. First, it is important to identify that the microbe is an oomycete by looking for characteristics that are specific to oomycetes, such as coenocytic hyphae, zoospores, and oospores. After that, one can identify the microbe as being in the genera Pythium by observing disease symptoms, host range, as well as the presence of a vesicle, where zoospores form, which is attached to the sporangia. In contrast, most other oomycetes do not have a vesicle and the zoospores form in the sporangia. Finally, once the genera has been identified, it is helpful to use a dichotomous key to identify the species. Some of the key identifiers for P. irregulare include oogonia with irregular shaped, cylindrical projections, sporangia that occur singly, sporangia that are not filamentous, and oogonia smaller than 30 μm. There are also many genomic tests that can be done to determine species based on specific DNA markers. It is also important to note that many diagnosticians do not identify to the species level because it can be difficult to find all necessary microscopic structures and many management techniques can be applied to all Pythium species.Pythium irregulare has a very broad host range, including many agronomically and horticulturally important crops and is found on every continent except for Antarctica. P. irregulare infects over 200 species, including cereals, legumes, fruits, vegetables, and ornamentals. It differs from many other Pythium species in that it prefers cooler environments. A moist environment is also necessary for disease, which aids motility of spores. It is commonly found in both greenhouses and fields.	 spinach Pythium irregulare

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 spinach Rhizoctonia solani

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 spinach Thanatephorus cucumeris

Like other plant pathogenic viruses, TMV has a very wide host range and has different effects depending on the host being infected. Tobacco mosaic virus has been known to cause a production loss for flue cured tobacco of up to two percent in North Carolina. It is known to infect members of nine plant families, and at least 125 individual species, including tobacco, tomato, pepper (all members of the useful Solanaceae), cucumbers, a number of ornamental flowers, and beans including Phaseolus vulgaris and Vigna unguiculata. There are many different strains. The first symptom of this virus disease is a light green coloration between the veins of young leaves. This is followed quickly by the development of a "mosaic" or mottled pattern of light and dark green areas in the leaves. Rugosity may also be seen where the infected plant leaves display small localized random wrinkles. These symptoms develop quickly and are more pronounced on younger leaves. Its infection does not result in plant death, but if infection occurs early in the season, plants are stunted. Lower leaves are subjected to "mosaic burn"  especially during periods of hot and dry weather. In these cases, large dead areas develop in the leaves. This constitutes one of the most destructive phases of Tobacco mosaic virus infection. Infected leaves may be crinkled, puckered, or elongated. However, if TMV infects crops like grape and apple, it is almost symptomless. TMV is able  to infect and complete its replication cycle in a plant pathogenic fungus,TMV is able to enter and replicate in cells of C. acutatum, C. clavatum, and C. theobromicola, which may not be an exception, although it has neither been found nor probably searched for in nature.	 spinach Tobacco mosaic virus

TSWV infects a variety of hosts, contributing to its global economic impact on crops. There are over a thousand different hosts for TSWV. The host range of TSWV includes agronomically important crops like tomatoes and tobacco. The symptoms of TSWV vary from host to host. There is also variability of symptoms within a single type of host due to the age of the plant, nutrition and the environment (especially temperature). Common symptoms include stunting, ringspots on fruit and necrosis of leaves. There are many different strains of TSWV, and differences in symptoms may also be attributed to the differences in the number of strains present.	 spinach Tomato spotted wilt virus

In fields, symptomatic plants are recognized in patches or rows.  They appear dwarfed, stunted, and brown in comparison to healthy plants. Local symptoms appear above ground, and plant leaves are typically distorted in shape, crinkled, and discolored with hard surfaces. They often have reduced flower size. Diseased plants typically have dead crowns and a shortened internode of the runners.A classic leaf symptom is the appearance of angular, water-soaked lesions between the veins.  The angular appearance results where the lesion edge and vein meet. In leaves with parallel venation, the length of the lesion progresses parallel to the direction of the vein.  As lesions enlarge and leaf damage progresses, symptomatic leaf edges become dry, dead, and crinkled. Because infected strawberry plants are less vigorous in growth, the stolon does not grow well, which results in reduced fruit size and number.  If the nematodes infect early in plant development, specifically when the buds are forming, the plant morphology will be dwarfed and distorted.Once the nematodes destroy most of the leaf tissue, they leave the plant through wounds and natural openings in the leaf to find a new host to infect. The pathogen is easily transmitted through direct contact between the foliage of infected and non-infected plants.  Nematodes can also move over large distances through soil transportation, as a result of human and animal movement, or through insect and bird travel.	 strawberry Aphelenchoides fragariae

A. ritezmabosi has a wide host range of almost 200 plant species, and is an important disease in chrysanthemum and other ornamentals.  Other ornamental hosts of A. ritzemabosi are anemones, asters, carnations, Chinaster, cinerarias, coneflowers,crassulas, creeping bellflower, dahlias, delphiniums, elders, lupines, monkeyflower, phlox,pouchflower, rhododendrons, sages, Siberian wallflower, water peperomia, and zinnias.A common symptom of A. ritezmabosi is seen when the nematode is feeding in the foliar tissue.  Angular lesions are formed, which are chlorotic at first then turn necrotic as the feeding persists.  A sign that an A. ritzeambosi nematode is feeding in the bud of a plant is brown scars on the bud and surrounding tissue.  The nematode also produces secretions that have the ability to cause several other symptoms in infested plants including shortening of inter-nodes, creating a bushy appearance, browning and failure of the shoot to grow, as well as distorted leaf formation.	 strawberry Aphelenchoides ritzemabosi

While it is common for the hosts not to show any symptoms of the pathogens influence, there are some symptoms that can occur in the hosts. The most prevalent symptoms of the ArMV are stunting of the plant and leaf flecking/molting and leaf enations. The symptoms will vary based on the type of rootstock, environmental conditions and variety.	 strawberry Arabis mosaic virus

Armillaria mellea typically infects hardwood trees and conifers but sometimes will infect non-woody monocots and a few herbaceous plants. There are few signs, and the ones that do exist are often hard to find. The most prominent sign is honey-colored mushrooms at the base of the infected plant. Additional signs include white, fan-shaped mycelia and black rhizomorphs with diameters between 1/32nd of an inch and 1/8th of an inch. These usually are not as noticeable because they occur beneath the bark and in the soil, respectively. The symptoms are much more numerous, including slower growth, dieback of branches, yellowing foliage, rotted wood at base and/or roots, external cankers, cracking bark, bleeding stem, leaf wilting, defoliation, and rapid death. Leaf wilting, defoliation, and dieback occur after the destruction of the cambium.	 strawberry Armillaria mellea

Aster yellows affects a long list of plant species including native plants, annual flowering plants, ornamentals, weeds, and vegetables crops. The largest family affected is the Asteraceae, and ornamental plants commonly infected are asters, marigolds, coreopsis, sunflowers, and purple coneflower.  Regarding vegetable crops, onion, lettuce, celery, and carrot are affected with the latter suffering the greatest losses.The range of characteristic symptoms varies by the phytoplasma strain, timing of infection, plant species, temperature, age, and size of the plant. The symptoms can be mistaken for herbicide damage or virus symptoms.  They include vein clearing until the entire leaf becomes chlorotic, stunting, deformation, virescence (greening of flowers), phyllody (development of leaf-like flower petals), reddening of foliage, reduced root system, and sterility.  Aster yellows does not typically kill perennial host plants. The symptoms caused by the disease are exacerbated by hot climates while some plants in cooler climates may be asymptomatic.Characteristic symptoms specific to the carrot include initial vein clearing and chlorosis, followed by production of many adventitious shoots, with the tops looking like a witches’-broom.  The internodes of such shoots are short as are the leaf petioles.  Young leaves are smaller and dry up while the petioles of older leaves twist and break off.  Any remaining older leaves turn bronze or red late in the season.  Floral parts are deformed and roots are smaller, abnormally shaped, and have woolly secondary roots.  The carrot roots are predisposed to soft rots in the field and storage and taste unpleasant to the consumer.	 strawberry Aster yellows

One of the most harmful seed and soil borne pathogens, Macrophomina phaseolina is a fungus that infects nearly 500 plant species in more than 100 families. The hosts include: peanut, cabbage, pepper, chickpea, soybean, sunflower, sweet potato, alfalfa, sesame, potato, sorghum, wheat, and corn, among others. The identification of isolates of M. phaseolina is usually based on morphology and efforts to divide the pathogen into subspecies, but because there are wide intraspecific variations in the phenotype of the isolates, these criteria are often not reliable. The failure to correctly detect and identify M. phaseolina using conventional culture-based morphological techniques has led scientists to develop nucleic acid-based molecular approaches, such as highly sensitive and specific polymerase chain reaction-based methods. Researchers have also recently created species-specific oligonucleotide primers and digoxigenin-labeled probes in hopes of better identifying and detecting M. phaseolina.The pathogen M. phaseolina affects the fibrovascular system of the roots and basal internodes of its host, impeding the transport of water and nutrients to the upper parts of the plant. As a result, progressive wilting, premature dying, loss of vigor, and reduced yield are characteristic symptoms of M. phaseolina infection. The fungus also causes many diseases like damping off, seedling blight, collar rot, stem rot, charcoal rot, basal stem rot, and root rot. Although brown lesions may form on the hypocotyls or emerging seedlings, many symptoms occur during or after flowering, including grey discoloration of the stem and taproots, shredding of plant tissue in the stem and top of the taproot, and hollowing of the stem. Small black dots may form beneath the epidermis of the lower stem and in the taproot, giving the stems and roots a charcoal-sprinkled appearance. When the epidermis is removed, small and black microsclerotia (a sign of the disease) may be so numerous that they give a greyish-black tint to the plant tissue. In addition, reddish-brown discoloration and black streaks can form in the pith and vascular tissues of the root and stem.	 strawberry Botryodiplodia phaseoli

Black rotBotryosphaeria obtusa enters the fruit through wounds. These can be made by insects, birds or growth cracks. At first a brown spot, near the calyx, appears on the fruit. The spot on the fruit then enlarges and black/brown rings appear on the fruit. The fruit holds its shape, however, unlike other fruit diseases. The fruit will then wither up and can remain on the tree for another year before falling off. During this time pycnidia appear on the surface of the rotted fruit.Frogeye leaf spotIn leaves the fungus begins by causing purple specks on infected leaves. These then enlarge to cause large spots on the leaf, developing a brown color. The spots appear to have rings of brown with a purple margin, thus giving it its frogeye appearance. The spots can then produce pycnidia which can separate this species of fungus from other possible leaf fungi.CankerOn twigs, branches and trunks B. obtusa can infect where there has been a winter injury or fire blight cankers. Slightly sunken reddish/brown spots appear on the infected areas of bark. These then enlarge to form cankers, which can then enlarge slightly more each year. The bark usually dies and can, after time, be pulled away from the tree. In older cankers the pycnidia appear on the bark.Black dead arm disease of grapevineBotryosphaeria obtusa is the pathogen of black dead arm disease of grapevine. It has been shown to be able to oxidise wood δ-resveratrol into delta-viniferin.	 strawberry Botryosphaeria obtusa

Colletotrichum acutatum has a broad host range, but is most important in strawberries. C.  acutatum on strawberries. The pathogen causes black spot of fruit, but can also be seen attacking the plant at its crowns, roots and leaves. After planting, stunting and yellowing as well as wilting may occur. General symptoms of the disease in other plants can also be seen on flowers, petioles, and roots.  Stems are also a prominent place to see symptoms. Lesions on the stem can appear dark colored, oval shaped, and possibly have immersed spots located on petioles and runners.  Once C.acutatum infects these parts of the plant, it can cause other diseases to unfold such as crown root rot, defoliation, bloom blight and fruit rot. Unfortunately, the most significant loss can be seen once the fruit is attacked. If the fruit is infected it will develop small brown spots (green fruit) or black spots (red fruit) and can expand throughout the fruits’ surface.	 strawberry Colletotrichum acutatum

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 strawberry Colletotrichum gloeosporioides

All brambles, especially black raspberries, are susceptible to cane blight. The causal agent for Cane Blight is the fungus Leptosphaeria coniothyrium.The infection spreads internally first, therefore outwardly noticeable symptoms typically do not appear quickly. Symptoms could be exposed by peeling back the xylem and looking at the internal plant tissue. Healthy tissue would appear green, whereas diseased tissue develop dark lesions and vascular streaking.By late summer or fall, well after the initial infection, dark red or purple lesions can appear near wounded sites. Sometimes, large cankers develop causing necrosis and death of the cane in the following year. In the spring buds may fail to break, lateral branches may appear wilted, or canes may die as the fruit begins to ripen. Canes can also break or appear brittle near infection sites.Signs of cane blight include small black raised specks, which are the sporocarps, or fruiting bodies called pycnidia and/or pseudothecia. In wet conditions, gray spore masses may appear and ooze from cankers on the cane or in dry conditions appear fuzzy and powdery.	 strawberry Coniothyrium fuckelii

Phomopsis obscurans is the specific pathogen that is known to cause leaf blight of strawberries, and is among the list of most commonly found diseases caused by Phomopsis.The symptoms of leaf blight infections begin as one to several circular reddish-purple spots, 3/8” to 1/2” in diameter on a leaflet and enlarge to form V-shaped lesions with a dark brown inner zone, a light brown outer zone, and a purple, red, or yellow perimeter. Lesions follow major veins progressing inward, which is what gives rise to the characteristic V-shaped lesions that result after the pathogen has established a strong infection in the plant tissue. The whole leaflet may turn yellow and then brown due to infection and subsequent necrosis of the plant tissue. In severe cases where the pathogen has progressed substantially, the stolons, fruit, and petioles of the leaf become infected and may girdle and kill the stem. The disease is commonly found in young tissue of the strawberry plant, when defense mechanisms may not yet be fully established.In later stages of development, when the fruit is infected and begins to rot, the disease resembles that of Anthracnose fruit rot. However, the diseases can be quickly differentiated by their differing signs because the lesions of Anthracnose fruit rot do not develop the tell-tale pycnidia fruiting bodies found in Phomopsis.	 strawberry Dendrophoma obscurans

All brambles, especially black raspberries, are susceptible to cane blight. The causal agent for Cane Blight is the fungus Leptosphaeria coniothyrium.The infection spreads internally first, therefore outwardly noticeable symptoms typically do not appear quickly. Symptoms could be exposed by peeling back the xylem and looking at the internal plant tissue. Healthy tissue would appear green, whereas diseased tissue develop dark lesions and vascular streaking.By late summer or fall, well after the initial infection, dark red or purple lesions can appear near wounded sites. Sometimes, large cankers develop causing necrosis and death of the cane in the following year. In the spring buds may fail to break, lateral branches may appear wilted, or canes may die as the fruit begins to ripen. Canes can also break or appear brittle near infection sites.Signs of cane blight include small black raised specks, which are the sporocarps, or fruiting bodies called pycnidia and/or pseudothecia. In wet conditions, gray spore masses may appear and ooze from cankers on the cane or in dry conditions appear fuzzy and powdery.	 strawberry Diapleella coniothyrium

The host of Diplocarpon earliana is the strawberry plant. The disease mainly infects strawberry leaves at any stage of its life cycle, but may infect all parts of the strawberry plant, including the petioles, fruits, and stems. The disease is characterized by numerous small, purplish to brownish lesions (from 1/16 to 3/16 of an inch in diameter) with undefined borders on the upper surface of the leaf. These symptoms are different from strawberry leaf spot which has brown lesions with defined borders and a lighter center. As the leaf scorch progresses over time, the leaves turn brown and dry up, resembling a burnt or “scorched” appearance as indicated by its disease name. It is common for the petioles of the leaves to have purple, sunken lesions that resemble streaks. If these streaks are severe enough, they may lead to the bowing of the petiole which in turn kills the leaf. Strawberry leaf scorch infects all parts of the flower, leading to unattractive blemishes on the fruit (strawberries).Minuscule dark, black spots are a sign of the fungus. These spots are specialized asexual fruiting bodies called acervuli. When the acervuli accumulate into masses, they resemble little drops of tar. Very rarely, the sexual structure apothecia that develop in advanced lesions of the plant can be seen. Leaf scorch seriously weakens the host plant, greatly reducing the ability to tolerate drought stress and the ability and lowering resistance to winter damage.	 strawberry Diplocarpon earlianum

D. dipsaci has an extensive host range. Major damage occurs in garlic, onion, carrot, fava bean, alfalfa, oats, and strawberry. Ornamental plants can also be infected including hyacinth and tulip. It is estimated that this pathogen infects 400–500 plant species worldwide.In Allium species (onions, garlic, and leeks), infected plants show characteristic symptoms including stunted growth, yellow spots, leaf curl, and foliage lesions. Stems often have swollen regions called “spikkles.” As adult nematodes migrate into the scales of the bulb, and the scales become soft, grey, and loosely packed. Highly infected bulbs can also split apart or show malformed bloating. The leaves of the plant become flaccid and may collapse. This can lead to defoliated plants. Garlic shows similar symptoms of leaf yellowing and stunted bulbs. When harvested, the infected garlic may be missing portions of the root system.In fava beans (Vicia faba), symptoms of infection include reddish-brown stem lesions that can turn black. Young bean pods are dark-brown. Infected seeds are smaller and distorted compared to healthy beans. Speckles and spots are also commonly seen on infected fava beans.Up to 30 biological races occur within D. dipsaci that are mostly distinguished by their host preferences. Very little morphological differences are seen between the races which makes diagnosis difficult. Seed material samples from infected plants can be dissected and viewed under a microscope to confirm the correct race.	 strawberry Ditylenchus dipsaci

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 strawberry Glomerella cingulata

All brambles, especially black raspberries, are susceptible to cane blight. The causal agent for Cane Blight is the fungus Leptosphaeria coniothyrium.The infection spreads internally first, therefore outwardly noticeable symptoms typically do not appear quickly. Symptoms could be exposed by peeling back the xylem and looking at the internal plant tissue. Healthy tissue would appear green, whereas diseased tissue develop dark lesions and vascular streaking.By late summer or fall, well after the initial infection, dark red or purple lesions can appear near wounded sites. Sometimes, large cankers develop causing necrosis and death of the cane in the following year. In the spring buds may fail to break, lateral branches may appear wilted, or canes may die as the fruit begins to ripen. Canes can also break or appear brittle near infection sites.Signs of cane blight include small black raised specks, which are the sporocarps, or fruiting bodies called pycnidia and/or pseudothecia. In wet conditions, gray spore masses may appear and ooze from cankers on the cane or in dry conditions appear fuzzy and powdery.	 strawberry Leptosphaeria coniothyrium

One of the most harmful seed and soil borne pathogens, Macrophomina phaseolina is a fungus that infects nearly 500 plant species in more than 100 families. The hosts include: peanut, cabbage, pepper, chickpea, soybean, sunflower, sweet potato, alfalfa, sesame, potato, sorghum, wheat, and corn, among others. The identification of isolates of M. phaseolina is usually based on morphology and efforts to divide the pathogen into subspecies, but because there are wide intraspecific variations in the phenotype of the isolates, these criteria are often not reliable. The failure to correctly detect and identify M. phaseolina using conventional culture-based morphological techniques has led scientists to develop nucleic acid-based molecular approaches, such as highly sensitive and specific polymerase chain reaction-based methods. Researchers have also recently created species-specific oligonucleotide primers and digoxigenin-labeled probes in hopes of better identifying and detecting M. phaseolina.The pathogen M. phaseolina affects the fibrovascular system of the roots and basal internodes of its host, impeding the transport of water and nutrients to the upper parts of the plant. As a result, progressive wilting, premature dying, loss of vigor, and reduced yield are characteristic symptoms of M. phaseolina infection. The fungus also causes many diseases like damping off, seedling blight, collar rot, stem rot, charcoal rot, basal stem rot, and root rot. Although brown lesions may form on the hypocotyls or emerging seedlings, many symptoms occur during or after flowering, including grey discoloration of the stem and taproots, shredding of plant tissue in the stem and top of the taproot, and hollowing of the stem. Small black dots may form beneath the epidermis of the lower stem and in the taproot, giving the stems and roots a charcoal-sprinkled appearance. When the epidermis is removed, small and black microsclerotia (a sign of the disease) may be so numerous that they give a greyish-black tint to the plant tissue. In addition, reddish-brown discoloration and black streaks can form in the pith and vascular tissues of the root and stem.	 strawberry Macrophomina phaseoli

One of the most harmful seed and soil borne pathogens, Macrophomina phaseolina is a fungus that infects nearly 500 plant species in more than 100 families. The hosts include: peanut, cabbage, pepper, chickpea, soybean, sunflower, sweet potato, alfalfa, sesame, potato, sorghum, wheat, and corn, among others. The identification of isolates of M. phaseolina is usually based on morphology and efforts to divide the pathogen into subspecies, but because there are wide intraspecific variations in the phenotype of the isolates, these criteria are often not reliable. The failure to correctly detect and identify M. phaseolina using conventional culture-based morphological techniques has led scientists to develop nucleic acid-based molecular approaches, such as highly sensitive and specific polymerase chain reaction-based methods. Researchers have also recently created species-specific oligonucleotide primers and digoxigenin-labeled probes in hopes of better identifying and detecting M. phaseolina.The pathogen M. phaseolina affects the fibrovascular system of the roots and basal internodes of its host, impeding the transport of water and nutrients to the upper parts of the plant. As a result, progressive wilting, premature dying, loss of vigor, and reduced yield are characteristic symptoms of M. phaseolina infection. The fungus also causes many diseases like damping off, seedling blight, collar rot, stem rot, charcoal rot, basal stem rot, and root rot. Although brown lesions may form on the hypocotyls or emerging seedlings, many symptoms occur during or after flowering, including grey discoloration of the stem and taproots, shredding of plant tissue in the stem and top of the taproot, and hollowing of the stem. Small black dots may form beneath the epidermis of the lower stem and in the taproot, giving the stems and roots a charcoal-sprinkled appearance. When the epidermis is removed, small and black microsclerotia (a sign of the disease) may be so numerous that they give a greyish-black tint to the plant tissue. In addition, reddish-brown discoloration and black streaks can form in the pith and vascular tissues of the root and stem.	 strawberry Macrophomina phaseolina

The host of Diplocarpon earliana is the strawberry plant. The disease mainly infects strawberry leaves at any stage of its life cycle, but may infect all parts of the strawberry plant, including the petioles, fruits, and stems. The disease is characterized by numerous small, purplish to brownish lesions (from 1/16 to 3/16 of an inch in diameter) with undefined borders on the upper surface of the leaf. These symptoms are different from strawberry leaf spot which has brown lesions with defined borders and a lighter center. As the leaf scorch progresses over time, the leaves turn brown and dry up, resembling a burnt or “scorched” appearance as indicated by its disease name. It is common for the petioles of the leaves to have purple, sunken lesions that resemble streaks. If these streaks are severe enough, they may lead to the bowing of the petiole which in turn kills the leaf. Strawberry leaf scorch infects all parts of the flower, leading to unattractive blemishes on the fruit (strawberries).Minuscule dark, black spots are a sign of the fungus. These spots are specialized asexual fruiting bodies called acervuli. When the acervuli accumulate into masses, they resemble little drops of tar. Very rarely, the sexual structure apothecia that develop in advanced lesions of the plant can be seen. Leaf scorch seriously weakens the host plant, greatly reducing the ability to tolerate drought stress and the ability and lowering resistance to winter damage.	 strawberry Marssonina fragariae

The host of Diplocarpon earliana is the strawberry plant. The disease mainly infects strawberry leaves at any stage of its life cycle, but may infect all parts of the strawberry plant, including the petioles, fruits, and stems. The disease is characterized by numerous small, purplish to brownish lesions (from 1/16 to 3/16 of an inch in diameter) with undefined borders on the upper surface of the leaf. These symptoms are different from strawberry leaf spot which has brown lesions with defined borders and a lighter center. As the leaf scorch progresses over time, the leaves turn brown and dry up, resembling a burnt or “scorched” appearance as indicated by its disease name. It is common for the petioles of the leaves to have purple, sunken lesions that resemble streaks. If these streaks are severe enough, they may lead to the bowing of the petiole which in turn kills the leaf. Strawberry leaf scorch infects all parts of the flower, leading to unattractive blemishes on the fruit (strawberries).Minuscule dark, black spots are a sign of the fungus. These spots are specialized asexual fruiting bodies called acervuli. When the acervuli accumulate into masses, they resemble little drops of tar. Very rarely, the sexual structure apothecia that develop in advanced lesions of the plant can be seen. Leaf scorch seriously weakens the host plant, greatly reducing the ability to tolerate drought stress and the ability and lowering resistance to winter damage.	 strawberry Marssonina potentillae

Meloidogyne hapla (Northern root-knot nematode) has a wide host range. It is polyphagous and affects over 550 crops and weeds. It feeds on many agricultural and horticultural plants (vegetables, fruits, ornamentals), but few grasses or cereals. A list of known hosts can be found at the bottom of this page.Symptoms can be seen in the roots, leaves, and the overall growth of the infected plant. In roots, there may be stunting, wilting, and the formation of abnormal growths called galls. Galls are usually small and spherical and are situated near many small roots. They are formed when the nematode enters the root and releases chemicals to enlarge root cells, on which they feed. The roots become defective and therefore cannot transport water and nutrients properly. The end result is stunted, wilted, and yellowing plants (characteristic of nutrient deficiency) and a decreased yield. Severity of the symptoms depends on nematode population density and host plant species and cultivar. As the number of nematodes increase in the area, the number and size of root galls increase as well. Each crop responds to Meloidogyne hapla differently. Carrots typically undergo severe forking with galling of the roots, lettuce have beadlike galls, and grasses and onions have small and barely noticeable galls and symptoms. In potato tubers (special stems), brown spots will appear on areas of the tubers where the females have laid their eggs.If a field has a patchy distribution of symptoms, it usually indicates the presence of nematodes. Most nematodes are not usually distributed uniformly in the soil. To correctly identify Meloidogyne hapla, the infected plant should be sent to a lab for a proper diagnosis. One common method is perineal pattern analysis where the perineum of the female nematode (area between the anus and the vulva) is examined for a specific pattern in ridges and annulations. Another common method is analyzing isozyme (different variations of the same enzyme produced by different genes) electrophoretic profiles using esterase and malate dehydrogenase.	 strawberry Meloidogyne hapla

This disease affects strawberry plant foliage causing purple spots ⅛ to ¼ inches across on the upper side of the leaves. At first, the whole spot is purple but as the disease matures the center of the leaf spots on older leaves become tan or gray, then almost white. Lesions on younger leaves remain light brown. When numerous spots merge foliage death can occur; this can stunt or kill infected plants when severe.On petioles, stolons, calyxes, and fruit trusses, elongated lesions may form and interfere with water transport in the plant, weakening the plant and making it more susceptible to invasion by a secondary organism. The fungus may infect the fruit in the form of black seed disease, discoloring the achenes.	 strawberry Mycosphaerella fragariae

While P. longisetula is best known for infecting strawberry crops, it can also infect other plants, including apricots, peaches, guava, and tomato fruits. Some plants such as beans are immune to the disease. It takes on average about two weeks for mature plants to be fully infected, while plants at an earlier stage of growth spread infection more slowly. Infected areas become covered with white mycelia growth and the host plant starts to rot from the skin to the core of the plant. The plant as a whole suffers as the leaves develop lesions with spores to spread the disease.	 strawberry Pestalotia longisetula

Mycoleptodiscus terrestris is an ascomycete with a wide host range that includes several types of popular aquatic weeds that have become invasive in their problem states – mainly southern states. But aside from them the pathogen also infects several types of alfalfa and legumes and have been seen to infect plants all the way up to Minnesota. This disease is known to cause several symptoms in affected hosts including: leaf spot, crowning, and lots of root rot. These symptoms are what cause major yield loss and is why this pathogen is so important to our agricultural systems.	 strawberry Phoma lycopersici

Roots will become infected and at first be light pink, sometimes they can be yellow or a yellow-brownish color. As the disease progresses the roots will become a darker pink then red and lastly turn to purple the advanced stages of this disease. Also in the later stages of this disease roots can become transparent, water soaked, and eventually disintegrate. New roots that form will also become infected, turn pink, and then die. Leaf size and number will be reduced, and bulbing will start early in infected plants compared to non-infected. Seedlings that become infected can be killed. Plants that survive from this disease become stunted and undersized which makes them not marketable. Plants that survive the infection will produce seed with a lowered biomass and germination rate.	 strawberry Phoma terrestris

Phomopsis obscurans is the specific pathogen that is known to cause leaf blight of strawberries, and is among the list of most commonly found diseases caused by Phomopsis.The symptoms of leaf blight infections begin as one to several circular reddish-purple spots, 3/8” to 1/2” in diameter on a leaflet and enlarge to form V-shaped lesions with a dark brown inner zone, a light brown outer zone, and a purple, red, or yellow perimeter. Lesions follow major veins progressing inward, which is what gives rise to the characteristic V-shaped lesions that result after the pathogen has established a strong infection in the plant tissue. The whole leaflet may turn yellow and then brown due to infection and subsequent necrosis of the plant tissue. In severe cases where the pathogen has progressed substantially, the stolons, fruit, and petioles of the leaf become infected and may girdle and kill the stem. The disease is commonly found in young tissue of the strawberry plant, when defense mechanisms may not yet be fully established.In later stages of development, when the fruit is infected and begins to rot, the disease resembles that of Anthracnose fruit rot. However, the diseases can be quickly differentiated by their differing signs because the lesions of Anthracnose fruit rot do not develop the tell-tale pycnidia fruiting bodies found in Phomopsis.	 strawberry Phomopsis obscurans

Black rotBotryosphaeria obtusa enters the fruit through wounds. These can be made by insects, birds or growth cracks. At first a brown spot, near the calyx, appears on the fruit. The spot on the fruit then enlarges and black/brown rings appear on the fruit. The fruit holds its shape, however, unlike other fruit diseases. The fruit will then wither up and can remain on the tree for another year before falling off. During this time pycnidia appear on the surface of the rotted fruit.Frogeye leaf spotIn leaves the fungus begins by causing purple specks on infected leaves. These then enlarge to cause large spots on the leaf, developing a brown color. The spots appear to have rings of brown with a purple margin, thus giving it its frogeye appearance. The spots can then produce pycnidia which can separate this species of fungus from other possible leaf fungi.CankerOn twigs, branches and trunks B. obtusa can infect where there has been a winter injury or fire blight cankers. Slightly sunken reddish/brown spots appear on the infected areas of bark. These then enlarge to form cankers, which can then enlarge slightly more each year. The bark usually dies and can, after time, be pulled away from the tree. In older cankers the pycnidia appear on the bark.Black dead arm disease of grapevineBotryosphaeria obtusa is the pathogen of black dead arm disease of grapevine. It has been shown to be able to oxidise wood δ-resveratrol into delta-viniferin.	 strawberry Physalospora obtusa

Phytophthora cactorum has an extremely wide host range, and can infect over 200 species or 160 genera of trees, ornamentals, and fruit crops. In general, P. cactorum is capable of infecting both young and old plants, and causes root rots and crown rots of the many genera it infects. Although the symptoms this pathogen produces varies between the types of organisms it infects, in general disease occurs during periods that are both wet and warm. Furthermore, most infections are caused by zoospores entering the plant through wounds.: 34 On older trees, P. cactorum causes the formation of sap exuding dark colored cankers on the trunks of trees, as well as leaf size and number reduction, chlorosis, and dieback of branches. The diagnosis of a P. cactorum infection of trees, is based on the identification of symptoms, in particular the oozing cankers, and confirmation of symptoms in a diagnosis lab or utilization of a field ELISA detection kit. P. cactorum can be a major problem in apple orchards, as it can cause crown, collar, and root rots in apple trees. When infecting apple trees, the organism can attack through wounds either above or below the soil line, impairing phloem and root function, and causing stunting, foliar disorders, and death after several years. Furthermore, because the pathogen causes damage to the phloem of the tree, one diagnostic method is to check for necrotic phloem tissue at the base of the tree which will be orange to red-brown in the early stages and dark brown in the later stages of infection.A good example of P. cactorum causing foliar disease is on ginseng. Foliar disease of ginseng usually occurs during May and early June, causing the leaves to become transparent and papery. Ginseng foliar infection occurs through the rain splash dispersal of spores from the soil onto above ground wounds. Once infected, P. cactorum works its way down to the roots, rotting them and killing the plant.P. cactorum is also one of the causal agents of black rot on orchids. When infecting orchids, this organism first produces small black lesions on the pseudobulbs of the orchid, which then enlarge and may engulf the entire pseudobulb, leaf, or move through the rhizomes to other portions of the plant prior to killing it. Diagnosis of orchid black rot by P. cactorum is through the identification of lemon-shaped zoosporangia with either a papilla or a short pedicel, the presence of oospores, or molecular identification. Since there are multiple species of Phytophthora that are capable of causing disease on orchids, classification only to the genus level is required for proper prescription of disease management techniques.Crown rot or root rot of strawberries is a common example of diseases of fruit crops caused by P. cactorum. On strawberries, P. cactorum infects the roots and the base of the plant causing stunting and reduced leaf size, with possible complete plant collapse later in the season. Similarly to apple trees, crown rots of strawberries caused by P. cactorum can be partially diagnosed by cutting the crown of the plant and observing brown vascular tissues, and root rots by brown or black stunted roots.Leather rot of strawberry is an additional disease affecting strawberry plants, with P. cactorum being the causal agent. Symptoms of this disease include brown patches or green patches with a brown border in immature fruit, with infected mature fruit displaying a purple to brown color, and becoming hard, leathery, or even mummified. Signs include visible mycelium inside of hollow infected berries, as well as mycelium on the surface of berries.  Infected fruit often has an unpleasant taste and odor, which is diagnostic. 	 strawberry Phytophthora cactorum

Scientist thought at first that there are 2 varieties of Phytophthora fragariae: P. fragariae var. fragariae, which refers to the pathogen that attacks strawberries, and P. fragariae var. rubi, which refers to the variety that is the raspberry pathogen. Recently, the latter is considered a distinct species, P. rubi.The oomycete does not infect tomato, apple, potato, turnip, cauliflower, chickweed, groundsel, or corn spurry.  In 1958, it was reported that there was a race of P. fragariae var. fragariae that infected loganberries.  Other plants have been reported to be susceptible to P. fragariae, and they include some Potentilla species, rosaceous plants, and Rubus parviflorus.  It is P. fragariae var. fragariae and P. fragariae var. rubi that attract the most attention and are the most heavily researched.The Phytophthora pathogens in strawberry and raspberry are similar in many ways morphologically, culturally, and molecularly, but are different in growth. Nonetheless, they are both variations of the pathogen P. fragariae. Recent research, however, suggests that these two variations may not have been as similar as once perceived.  A study done to genetically map these pathogens revealed such a difference in the genome of these two variations, they likely could be considered two completely different species.  This research has yet to make any changes to the present day cytology and taxonomy of this pathogen.There are different races of P. fragariae, that occur within each form (e.g. var. fragariae, var. rubi) that attack only certain host plant cultivars.  Depending on the location, there are anywhere from 5 to 18 different races that have been found to infect strawberries.  However, there is not currently an international system to classify the differences of these races.The main target of this pathogen is the central vascular cylinder of the roots.  The common symptom that gives P. fragariae the nickname of “red core rot” is the red discoloration of these roots.  Due to the infection, the stele of the root turns a wine to brick red, and starts to decay and die from the tip upwards.  Red color of the roots does not necessarily guarantee the presence of P. fragariae infection.  The most dependable way to determine if a plant has P. fragariae is the presence of microscopic oospores. Another symptom of P. fragariae is badly rooted lateral roots, starting to turn a grey or brown color.  Other roots are poorly developed.  Root symptoms can be observed starting in late autumn, and young roots are particularly susceptible.The symptoms on the above-ground parts of the plant generally do not begin to show until late spring and early summer.  Overall, the plant ceases to grow, or is stunted in growth, and shows a decline in runner development.  The younger plant leaves turn blue-green, and older leaves turn red or yellow.  The plant will wilt and collapse.  In some cases, not frequently, the plant will merely wilt and die before visible symptoms are able to develop above the ground.  The plant may die before fruiting, but if there is fruit produced it will likely be small, deformed, or dry.The activity of the oomycete ceases when the symptoms are developing in the aerial parts of the plant.  This brings about the opportunity for secondary fungi and oomycetes to mask the original Phytophthora pathogen.  These secondary organisms have been observed to be species of Pythium and less commonly Rhizoctonia and other Phytophthora.The symptoms of P. fragariae var. rubi are best seen in the spring.  These include small roots, reduction of number of roots, and change in color from white to dark.  Removal of the bark will make apparent a reddish discoloration. Smaller roots will rot completely, and the plant itself will wilt.  The foliage appears bronzed or a reddish-brown long before the expected autumn timeframe.  There are no fresh or new canes produced, and young canes wilt.  Some fruiting canes will not break bud or will wilt and dry out.  There may be blackish or purple lesions at the base of the plant.Although not extremely common, the use of PCR to detect this disease is also another diagnostic tool.  Specifically, PCR was studied for the detection of P. fragariae var. rubi.  It was found the use of PCR with conventional Phytophthora primers yields more favorable results, is less time consuming, and is more convenient than PCR using specific var. rubi primers.  Also, using PCR with primers DC1 and DC5 in the second round was also found to yield favorable results to detect P. fragariae var. rubi.	 strawberry Phytophthora fragariae

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 strawberry Phytophthora nicotianae

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 strawberry Phytophthora nicotianae var. parasitica

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 strawberry Phytophthora parasitica

Phytoplasmas can infect and cause various symptoms in more than 700 plant species. One characteristic symptom is abnormal floral organ development including phyllody (i.e., the production of leaf-like structures in place of flowers) and virescence (i.e., the development of green flowers attributable to a loss of pigment by petal cells). Phytoplasma-harboring flowering plants may nevertheless be sterile. The expression of genes involved in maintaining the apical meristem or in the development of floral organs is altered in the morphologically affected floral organs of phytoplasma-infected plants.A phytoplasma infection often triggers leaf yellowing, probably due to the presence of phytoplasma cells in phloem, which can affect phloem function and carbohydrate transport, inhibit chlorophyll biosynthesis, and trigger chlorophyll breakdown. These symptoms may be attributable to stress caused by the infection rather than a specific pathogenetic process.Many phytoplasma-infected plants develop a bushy or "witches' broom" appearance due to changes in their normal growth patterns. Most plants exhibit apical dominance but infection can trigger the proliferation of axillary (side) shoots and a reduction in internode size. Such symptoms are actually useful in the commercial production of poinsettias. Infection triggers more axillary shoot production; the poinsettia plants thus produce more than a single flower.	 strawberry Phytoplasma

Root lesion nematode has a wide host range, including hosts like apple, cherry, conifers, roses, tomato, potato, corn, onion and sugarbeets, and ornamentals such as Narcissus. More than 164 hosts for P. penetrans have been recorded.  In the host range there are some hosts that are susceptible, such as wheat, oat, field pea, faba bean, and chickpea, and some that are moderately susceptible, such as barley and canola.Some general symptoms that are produced on infected plants include poor growth, fruit spot, and chlorotic foliage.  These secondary symptoms are often due to plant root stress.  These make it rather difficult to diagnose nematode diseases in general.  The roots when infected produce necrotic lesions, which are darkened areas of dead tissue, on the surface and throughout the cortex of the infected roots.  These lesions turn the root to reddish-brown to black and are initially spotty.  As the nematode continues to feed, the lesions can coalesce to become large necrotic areas of tissue that may eventually girdle the root. The population size of the nematode affects the degree of symptoms.  Low to moderate populations may cause no visible above ground symptoms, while high populations can lead to stunting, nutrient and water deficiencies, and eventual die-back of the plant.  On potato, infection of root lesion nematode can cause a secondary invasion by Verticillium dahliae leading to Potato Early Dying.  Onions are another important host of P. penetrans.  Onions are an important vegetable for consumption in the United States and upon infection the nematodes can limit yield and quality of the bulbs.  Populations of more than 0.01 nematode per cubic centimeter of soil resulted in injury to onions.  There is a negative relationship between the increasing inoculum levels on onion root and top fresh weight at harvest.	 strawberry Pratylenchus penetrans

Roots will become infected and at first be light pink, sometimes they can be yellow or a yellow-brownish color. As the disease progresses the roots will become a darker pink then red and lastly turn to purple the advanced stages of this disease. Also in the later stages of this disease roots can become transparent, water soaked, and eventually disintegrate. New roots that form will also become infected, turn pink, and then die. Leaf size and number will be reduced, and bulbing will start early in infected plants compared to non-infected. Seedlings that become infected can be killed. Plants that survive from this disease become stunted and undersized which makes them not marketable. Plants that survive the infection will produce seed with a lowered biomass and germination rate.	 strawberry Pyrenochaeta terrestris

Pythium irregulare is an oomycete that causes pre- and post-emergence damping off, as well as root rot. Pre-emergence damping off occurs when P. irregulare infects seeds before they emerge, causing them to rot and turn brown, thus preventing successful growth. Alternatively, post-emergence damping off occurs when the oomycete infects just after the seed has germinated. This usually causes infection in the roots and stem which appears as water soaking and necrosis. Depending on the severity, plants may collapse or be severely stunted. In plants that are older and more established, P. irregulare causes root rot. This will initially cause necrotic lesions, which leads to chlorosis, reduced yield, poor growth, and stunting due to inadequate water and nutrient acquisition by the roots. Additionally, P. irregulare is often found coinfecting with other Pythium species. All three of these diseases caused by P. irregulare can be caused by other pathogens as well, so a disease diagnosis is not necessarily indicative of P. irregulareIn order to identify Pythium irregulare it is necessary to isolate the organism and observe it microscopically. First, it is important to identify that the microbe is an oomycete by looking for characteristics that are specific to oomycetes, such as coenocytic hyphae, zoospores, and oospores. After that, one can identify the microbe as being in the genera Pythium by observing disease symptoms, host range, as well as the presence of a vesicle, where zoospores form, which is attached to the sporangia. In contrast, most other oomycetes do not have a vesicle and the zoospores form in the sporangia. Finally, once the genera has been identified, it is helpful to use a dichotomous key to identify the species. Some of the key identifiers for P. irregulare include oogonia with irregular shaped, cylindrical projections, sporangia that occur singly, sporangia that are not filamentous, and oogonia smaller than 30 μm. There are also many genomic tests that can be done to determine species based on specific DNA markers. It is also important to note that many diagnosticians do not identify to the species level because it can be difficult to find all necessary microscopic structures and many management techniques can be applied to all Pythium species.Pythium irregulare has a very broad host range, including many agronomically and horticulturally important crops and is found on every continent except for Antarctica. P. irregulare infects over 200 species, including cereals, legumes, fruits, vegetables, and ornamentals. It differs from many other Pythium species in that it prefers cooler environments. A moist environment is also necessary for disease, which aids motility of spores. It is commonly found in both greenhouses and fields.	 strawberry Pythium irregulare

Pythium myriotylum is a causal agent of soft root rot in economically important crops including peanuts, tomato, rye, wheat, oats, cucumber, soybean, sorghum, tobacco, cabbage, and maize. Pythium myriotylum causes pre-emergence damping off, it infects the seed and causes it to rot before plant growth.  This causes the plant seedling to become shriveled, soft, and brown. In a study done on soybeans, some symptoms that were seen were rotting of roots, diseased seedlings in the field, plus rotting and blight of seedlings. Pythium myriotylum can also cause post-emergence damping off in peanuts, resulting in discoloration of the seedlings and roots along with a water-soaked appearance in certain areas, these symptoms usually result in the death of the seedlings.	 strawberry Pythium myriotylum

One of the most harmful seed and soil borne pathogens, Macrophomina phaseolina is a fungus that infects nearly 500 plant species in more than 100 families. The hosts include: peanut, cabbage, pepper, chickpea, soybean, sunflower, sweet potato, alfalfa, sesame, potato, sorghum, wheat, and corn, among others. The identification of isolates of M. phaseolina is usually based on morphology and efforts to divide the pathogen into subspecies, but because there are wide intraspecific variations in the phenotype of the isolates, these criteria are often not reliable. The failure to correctly detect and identify M. phaseolina using conventional culture-based morphological techniques has led scientists to develop nucleic acid-based molecular approaches, such as highly sensitive and specific polymerase chain reaction-based methods. Researchers have also recently created species-specific oligonucleotide primers and digoxigenin-labeled probes in hopes of better identifying and detecting M. phaseolina.The pathogen M. phaseolina affects the fibrovascular system of the roots and basal internodes of its host, impeding the transport of water and nutrients to the upper parts of the plant. As a result, progressive wilting, premature dying, loss of vigor, and reduced yield are characteristic symptoms of M. phaseolina infection. The fungus also causes many diseases like damping off, seedling blight, collar rot, stem rot, charcoal rot, basal stem rot, and root rot. Although brown lesions may form on the hypocotyls or emerging seedlings, many symptoms occur during or after flowering, including grey discoloration of the stem and taproots, shredding of plant tissue in the stem and top of the taproot, and hollowing of the stem. Small black dots may form beneath the epidermis of the lower stem and in the taproot, giving the stems and roots a charcoal-sprinkled appearance. When the epidermis is removed, small and black microsclerotia (a sign of the disease) may be so numerous that they give a greyish-black tint to the plant tissue. In addition, reddish-brown discoloration and black streaks can form in the pith and vascular tissues of the root and stem.	 strawberry Rhizoctonia bataticola

Symptoms are most visible in the first fruiting year and are most apparent during the last couple of weeks before harvest.> Early symptoms will include reduced vigor and a decrease in the ability to survive high water conditions. Plants may experience lodging when water demand is high. Infected plants may continue to grow but will show aboveground symptoms including stunting, decreased fruit size, and numerous dead older leaves. Belowground symptoms include the deterioration of roots. Infected plants may have feeder and main roots that are smaller and covered in black lesions. Feeder roots will appear water soaked. In the early stages of infection, the core of the root will appear white while the exterior begins to show black lesions. In severely affected roots, both the core and the outer tissue of the root will be black [3]. Stained feeder roots may reveal masses of moniliform cells of R. fragariae. Characteristics of R. fragariae include hyphal branching pattern, dolipore septa, and moniliform resting cells. The binucleated hyphae directly penetrate the root.	 strawberry Rhizoctonia fragariae

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 strawberry Rhizoctonia solani

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 strawberry Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

The pathogen that causes powdery mildew of hops was once considered to be Sphaerotheca macularis, which is capable of infecting many plants; however, in recent years, the pathogen that causes powdery mildew of hops has been taxonomically classified as Podosphaera macularis. This ascomycete is only known to be pathogenic on hop plants, including both ornamental and wild hops, and Cannabis sativa. The host range of many Podosphaera macularis strains is restricted by the existence of resistant hop varieties, such as the “Nugget” variety of Washington state and Oregon, although in recent years, resistance within this hop variety has been overcome in the laboratory. When disease does occur, early symptoms include chlorotic spots on the leaves of hop plants. Spots may fade to gray or white as the season progresses. Signs include white clusters of hyphae, which are often present on the leaves, and in some cases can infect the cone itself. If this infection occurs, a brown, necrotic lesion may develop. When both mating types exist within a population, chleistothecia can form and are visible as small, black dots on the undersides of leaves.	 strawberry Sphaerotheca humuli

The pathogen that causes powdery mildew of hops was once considered to be Sphaerotheca macularis, which is capable of infecting many plants; however, in recent years, the pathogen that causes powdery mildew of hops has been taxonomically classified as Podosphaera macularis. This ascomycete is only known to be pathogenic on hop plants, including both ornamental and wild hops, and Cannabis sativa. The host range of many Podosphaera macularis strains is restricted by the existence of resistant hop varieties, such as the “Nugget” variety of Washington state and Oregon, although in recent years, resistance within this hop variety has been overcome in the laboratory. When disease does occur, early symptoms include chlorotic spots on the leaves of hop plants. Spots may fade to gray or white as the season progresses. Signs include white clusters of hyphae, which are often present on the leaves, and in some cases can infect the cone itself. If this infection occurs, a brown, necrotic lesion may develop. When both mating types exist within a population, chleistothecia can form and are visible as small, black dots on the undersides of leaves.	 strawberry Sphaerotheca macularis

The symptoms of Strawberry Crinkle Virus varies between different varieties of plants, and they can also vary in the severity. Common symptoms can include spotting of the plant veins. The spotting can be chlorotic (yellowish spot on the leaf surface) or necrotic with areas of black indicating tissue death in these areas. The petals of the flowers can also be deformed, and thee petals can also have abnormal streaking. The virus can also cause malformed leaflets, crinkled leaves, and also uneven leaf distribution in the plant. Another symptom can be the formation of lesions or areas of damage in the petioles and stolons of the plant. Episnasty can also occur from the virus, which causes increased growth of the upper region of the plant, which in turn makes the plant top-heavy causing it to bend downward.	 strawberry Strawberry crinkle virus

Leaves become patchy and reddish in color. There are decreased yields.	 strawberry Strawberry latent ringspot virus

Symptoms of this virus mainly include cupped leaflets and reduced in Fragaria species. In some plants such as Fragaria chiloensis and Fragaria × ananassa infection appears symptomless.	 strawberry Strawberry mild yellow-edge virus

Strawberry vein banding virus (SVBV) presents itself through symptomatic yellow banding along primary and secondary veins. The streaking is inconsistent along the length of the veins. The veining appears first on the newest growth. Other symptoms include wavy leaf margins, epinastic growth of midribs and petioles, and the laminae of the leaf may become uneven. As the plant continues to grow, symptoms will be scattered in their presence on new leaves. Some leaves will appear asymptomatic, others will appear more severe in their symptoms.Commercial strawberries do not present distinct diagnostic symptoms. Stunting, reduced yield, and loss of vigor can be indicative that a commercial cultivar has SVBV. It is common that there are other viruses present in the plant, SVBV rarely presents itself alone. SVBV in combination with strawberry latent C disease can start out reducing yield by 17%, but by the 3rd year of the crop, total salable fruit can be completely eliminated.Fragaria (strawberry), Fragaria ananassa (strawberry), and Fragaria vesca (wild strawberry) are the only plants known to get SVBV, with the main host being the wild strawberry.	 strawberry Strawberry vein banding virus

Tobacco necrosis virus (TNV) can thrive on a handful of viable hosts. These hosts include tobacco, zucchini, cucumbers, carrots, French bean, tomatoes, potatoes, and tulips. There are a variety of symptoms that are dependent on the host species. In infected plants, abnormal coloring or necrotic tissue in the leaves may occur and roots may have lesions. If bark is present on the plant, it may become discolored. Fruit or tubers can become covered with sunken and discolored spots and can be smaller overall. On a whole-plant scale, damping off or early dying may occur.	 strawberry Tobacco necrosis virus

There are many strains of Verticillium dahliae which are categorized into vegetative compatibility groups (VCG). These groups comprise strains that are able to exchange genetic material via anastomosis. Each VCG affects a few or only one host and the virulence of the pathogen varies by host. While individual V. dahliae strains are relatively host specific, as a species it has a wide range.Verticillium dahliae has a very wide host range, affecting over 300 plant species. Some susceptible crops include Brussels sprouts, cabbage, eggplant, cucumbers, mint, pepper, potatoes, pumpkin, spinach, tomato, watermelon, honeydew, and cantaloupe. Of these, tomato, potato, and eggplant have resistant or tolerant varieties.Symptoms of this disease are seen throughout the plant. Leaves may have abnormal coloration, necrotic areas, wilt, and/or fall off the plant. The stem may have discolored vascular tissue, exhibit rosetting (shortened internodes of the plant caused by reduced growth, resulting in a rosette-like appearance), and/or be stunted. Early senescence and dieback may also occur.Microsclerotia can be seen under a lens as small black structures in the vasculature of living and dead plants. This feature can be used to distinguish V. dahliae from V. albo-atrum, the other verticillium wilt pathogen.	 strawberry Verticillium dahliae

Infection caused by the angular leaf spot pathogen first appears as water-soaked lesions found on the lower surface of strawberry leaves. These water-soaked lesions are the result of bacterial colonization within the plant leaf tissue. Lesions typically get larger as the infection worsens, and the enlarged lesions then form translucent spots. These angular spots typically exude an ooze of bacteria that appears as a white and flakey film once dry.[2] Lesions on the upper surface of leaves will also become visible with time. As the disease worsens, the angular spots grow larger and begin to combine. Severely affected leaves can tear away and become jagged, with a dry and reddish-brown appearance. Prolonged wetness on strawberry leaves can exacerbate this disease, so air circulation and sunlight exposure are important to protecting the host plants. These symptoms are similar to leaf scorch and common leaf spot so be careful when examining symptoms of diseased plants.[3] Dark purple spots scattered on the leaf surface are symptoms of leaf scorch and common leaf spot, but not angular leaf spot.	 strawberry Xanthomonas fragariae

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 sugarcane Alternaria alternata

Early in the progression of the disease, minute watery spots may be observed on plants. Crops that are six or more months old are more susceptible--younger leaves will most likely be affected first. As the disease progresses, reddish spots with yellow margins on leaves become visible. Extending from each spot are brownish streaks, called ‘runners’. These are thought to be caused by the spread of the toxin. Spots may merge as they increase in number and result in necrosis. Seedling blights may also occur.	 sugarcane Bipolaris sacchari

One of the most well-known diseases caused by Ceratocystis paradoxa is Black rot or stem-end rot of pineapple, but it can also infect tropical fruit plants such as banana and coconuts as well as sugarcane. The pathogen infects the fruits through wounds or other openings after harvest has already happened and the fruit is fresh.Symptoms for this disease are very obvious black lesions on the fruit, the main infection part of the plant. If the pathogen infects the plant while fruits are still on it, they will prematurely drop. Other symptoms include discoloration of leaves as well as the seeds. The lesions on the fruit evolve to become soft rot spots that produce a heinous odor. The fruit can even get to the point of breakdown.Known hosts:Ananas comosus (pineapple)AraceaeAreca catechu (betelnut palm)Borassus flabellifer (toddy palm)Butia capitataCocos nucifera (coconut)Coffea (coffee)Daucus carota (carrot)Dypsis decaryiElaeis guineensis (African oil palm)EucalyptusHowea forsteriana (paradise palm)Mangifera indica (mango)Musa x paradisiaca (plantain)Phoenix dactylifera (date-palm)Saccharum officinarum (sugarcane)Solanum muricatum (melon pear)Theobroma cacao (cocoa)Zea mays (maize)	 sugarcane Ceratocystis paradoxa

One of the most well-known diseases caused by Ceratocystis paradoxa is Black rot or stem-end rot of pineapple, but it can also infect tropical fruit plants such as banana and coconuts as well as sugarcane. The pathogen infects the fruits through wounds or other openings after harvest has already happened and the fruit is fresh.Symptoms for this disease are very obvious black lesions on the fruit, the main infection part of the plant. If the pathogen infects the plant while fruits are still on it, they will prematurely drop. Other symptoms include discoloration of leaves as well as the seeds. The lesions on the fruit evolve to become soft rot spots that produce a heinous odor. The fruit can even get to the point of breakdown.Known hosts:Ananas comosus (pineapple)AraceaeAreca catechu (betelnut palm)Borassus flabellifer (toddy palm)Butia capitataCocos nucifera (coconut)Coffea (coffee)Daucus carota (carrot)Dypsis decaryiElaeis guineensis (African oil palm)EucalyptusHowea forsteriana (paradise palm)Mangifera indica (mango)Musa x paradisiaca (plantain)Phoenix dactylifera (date-palm)Saccharum officinarum (sugarcane)Solanum muricatum (melon pear)Theobroma cacao (cocoa)Zea mays (maize)	 sugarcane Chalara paradoxa

Gibberella fujikuroi is most widely known for its disease producing capabilities in rice, but barley, millet, sugarcane and maize are also susceptible. In all infected plants, similar symptoms have been found, though rice has been most predominantly studied. The most telltale symptom of Bakanae is the tall, spindly look of the plant. This is a result of the gibberellins, or growth hormones, the fungus secretes. Infected plants are easy to pick out, then, as they often rise above the rest of the healthy plants with regularly secreted growth hormones.  However, it is also possible that stunting may occur, along with Chlorosis of the leaves of the plant, root lesions, or empty grains of plants grown to maturity.	 sugarcane Gibberella fujikuroi

Gibberella fujikuroi is most widely known for its disease producing capabilities in rice, but barley, millet, sugarcane and maize are also susceptible. In all infected plants, similar symptoms have been found, though rice has been most predominantly studied. The most telltale symptom of Bakanae is the tall, spindly look of the plant. This is a result of the gibberellins, or growth hormones, the fungus secretes. Infected plants are easy to pick out, then, as they often rise above the rest of the healthy plants with regularly secreted growth hormones.  However, it is also possible that stunting may occur, along with Chlorosis of the leaves of the plant, root lesions, or empty grains of plants grown to maturity.	 sugarcane Gibberella subglutinans

Early in the progression of the disease, minute watery spots may be observed on plants. Crops that are six or more months old are more susceptible--younger leaves will most likely be affected first. As the disease progresses, reddish spots with yellow margins on leaves become visible. Extending from each spot are brownish streaks, called ‘runners’. These are thought to be caused by the spread of the toxin. Spots may merge as they increase in number and result in necrosis. Seedling blights may also occur.	 sugarcane Helminthosporium sacchari

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 sugarcane Pellicularia sasakii

Phytoplasmas can infect and cause various symptoms in more than 700 plant species. One characteristic symptom is abnormal floral organ development including phyllody (i.e., the production of leaf-like structures in place of flowers) and virescence (i.e., the development of green flowers attributable to a loss of pigment by petal cells). Phytoplasma-harboring flowering plants may nevertheless be sterile. The expression of genes involved in maintaining the apical meristem or in the development of floral organs is altered in the morphologically affected floral organs of phytoplasma-infected plants.A phytoplasma infection often triggers leaf yellowing, probably due to the presence of phytoplasma cells in phloem, which can affect phloem function and carbohydrate transport, inhibit chlorophyll biosynthesis, and trigger chlorophyll breakdown. These symptoms may be attributable to stress caused by the infection rather than a specific pathogenetic process.Many phytoplasma-infected plants develop a bushy or "witches' broom" appearance due to changes in their normal growth patterns. Most plants exhibit apical dominance but infection can trigger the proliferation of axillary (side) shoots and a reduction in internode size. Such symptoms are actually useful in the commercial production of poinsettias. Infection triggers more axillary shoot production; the poinsettia plants thus produce more than a single flower.	 sugarcane Phytoplasma

Root lesion nematodes infect a great variety of hosts. Pratylenchus penetrans alone has over 350 host plants. They include agricultural crops such as soybeans, potatoes, corn, bananas, and wheat. The genus is found most often in corn. Signs of disease are similar in most plants and generally include necrotic lesions of the roots. The lesions can also be entrances for pathogenic bacteria and fungi, which produce secondary infections. Above ground the plant becomes stunted, chlorotic, and wilted, and it often dies. A crop field may be patchy as plants wither and die. Root lesion nematodes can cause significant yield losses.	 sugarcane Pratylenchus

Pythium graminicola infects a wide range of hosts, including: bent grass, turmeric, cotton, barley, wheat, rice, beans, peas, and sugarcane. In particular Pythium graminicola is an important pathogen of graminaceous plants. As with many Pythium diseases, the most common symptom of Pythium graminicola is root/seed rot, which can then cause damping off. However, Pythium graminicola can also infect above ground tissue causing stalk rot in maize, foot rot of beans, leaf blight of grasses and feeder root necrosis in rice, sugarcane and maize. Diagnosis of Pythium graminicola can be made through observation of the above symptoms and the presence of oomycete structures, such as sporangia.	 sugarcane Pythium graminicola

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 sugarcane Rhizoctonia solani

Phytoplasma-infected sugarcane plants show a proliferation of tillers, which give it typical grassy appearance, hence the name grassy shoot disease.  The leaves of infected plants do not produce chlorophyll, and therefore appear white or creamy yellow. The leaf veins turn white first as the phytoplasma resides in leaf phloem tissue. Symptoms at the early stage of the plant life cycle include leaf chlorosis, mainly at the central leaf whorl.  Infected plants do not have the capacity to produce food in the absence of chlorophyll, which results in no cane formation. These symptoms can be seen prominently in the stubble crop.  The eye or lateral buds sprout before the normal time on growing cane. A survey of various fields of western Maharashtra showed grassy shoot with chlorotic or creamy white leaves was the most prevalent phenotype in sugarcane plants infected with SCGS.	 sugarcane Sugarcane Grassy Shoot Disease

Symptoms of sugarcane mosaic virus include intense mottling throughout the laminar region of the plant, characterized by discoloration of the plants leaves, and growth stunting. In maize, the infection occurs first in the youngest leaves with symptoms such as irregular, light or dark green mosaic coloring developing along the veins. The virus can result in severe yield loss of the infected host and the disease eventually leads to necrosis. Diagnosis of sugarcane mosaic virus is achieved first through recognizing the typical light green mosaic pattern of the infection, electron microscopy of leaf dips, as well as virus isolation and purification methods. One diagnosis technique being studied is the next-generation sequencing method (NGS) or sap inoculation, which was found to have a 90% success rate in a 2011 study. NGS could allow quick assessment of disease and be used for routine diagnosis against potential disease-causing agents.	 sugarcane Sugarcane mosaic virus

Sugarcane smut infects all sugarcane species unless the species is resistant. The damage caused depends on the susceptibility of the species. Sugarcane fields are planted using vegetative cuttings from mother plants so they have the same genetic make-up of the parent plant. Seeds are not used in propagation because sugarcane is a multi-species hybrid and therefore is difficult to breed. Sugarcane smuts can also infect some other grass species outside of sugarcane. However, mostly it remains on plants of the genus Saccharum.Two to four months after the fungus has infected the plant, black whip-like structures, instead of a spindle leaf, emerge from the meristem, or growing point, of the plant. The developing whip is a mixture of plant tissue and fungal tissue. The whip reaches maturity between the sixth and the seventh month. When spores that are contained inside the whip are released, the core of the whip remains behind and is a straw-like color.Plants infected with the fungus usually appear to have thin stalks and are often stunted. They end up tillering much more than normal and this results in leaves that are more slender and much weaker. They sometimes appear more grass-like than non-infected plants. Less common symptoms of the disease are stem or leaf galls and proliferating buds.	 sugarcane Sugarcane smut

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 sugarcane Thanatephorus cucumeris

One of the most well-known diseases caused by Ceratocystis paradoxa is Black rot or stem-end rot of pineapple, but it can also infect tropical fruit plants such as banana and coconuts as well as sugarcane. The pathogen infects the fruits through wounds or other openings after harvest has already happened and the fruit is fresh.Symptoms for this disease are very obvious black lesions on the fruit, the main infection part of the plant. If the pathogen infects the plant while fruits are still on it, they will prematurely drop. Other symptoms include discoloration of leaves as well as the seeds. The lesions on the fruit evolve to become soft rot spots that produce a heinous odor. The fruit can even get to the point of breakdown.Known hosts:Ananas comosus (pineapple)AraceaeAreca catechu (betelnut palm)Borassus flabellifer (toddy palm)Butia capitataCocos nucifera (coconut)Coffea (coffee)Daucus carota (carrot)Dypsis decaryiElaeis guineensis (African oil palm)EucalyptusHowea forsteriana (paradise palm)Mangifera indica (mango)Musa x paradisiaca (plantain)Phoenix dactylifera (date-palm)Saccharum officinarum (sugarcane)Solanum muricatum (melon pear)Theobroma cacao (cocoa)Zea mays (maize)	 sugarcane Thielaviopsis paradoxa

Sugarcane smut infects all sugarcane species unless the species is resistant. The damage caused depends on the susceptibility of the species. Sugarcane fields are planted using vegetative cuttings from mother plants so they have the same genetic make-up of the parent plant. Seeds are not used in propagation because sugarcane is a multi-species hybrid and therefore is difficult to breed. Sugarcane smuts can also infect some other grass species outside of sugarcane. However, mostly it remains on plants of the genus Saccharum.Two to four months after the fungus has infected the plant, black whip-like structures, instead of a spindle leaf, emerge from the meristem, or growing point, of the plant. The developing whip is a mixture of plant tissue and fungal tissue. The whip reaches maturity between the sixth and the seventh month. When spores that are contained inside the whip are released, the core of the whip remains behind and is a straw-like color.Plants infected with the fungus usually appear to have thin stalks and are often stunted. They end up tillering much more than normal and this results in leaves that are more slender and much weaker. They sometimes appear more grass-like than non-infected plants. Less common symptoms of the disease are stem or leaf galls and proliferating buds.	 sugarcane Ustilago scitaminea

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 sunflower Alternaria alternata

There are eight different species that cause yield loss of sunflowers; however, Alternaria helianthi is the primary causal agent and most widespread. The main hosts are sunflowers (Helianthus annuus); however, it has been proven that safflower (Carthamus tinctorius), noogoora burr (Xanthium pungens), cocklebur (Xanthium strumarium), and Bathurst burr (Xanthium spinosum) can serve as alternative hosts for the pathogen.	 sunflower Alternaria helianthi

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 sunflower Alternaria tenuis

Aster yellows affects a long list of plant species including native plants, annual flowering plants, ornamentals, weeds, and vegetables crops. The largest family affected is the Asteraceae, and ornamental plants commonly infected are asters, marigolds, coreopsis, sunflowers, and purple coneflower.  Regarding vegetable crops, onion, lettuce, celery, and carrot are affected with the latter suffering the greatest losses.The range of characteristic symptoms varies by the phytoplasma strain, timing of infection, plant species, temperature, age, and size of the plant. The symptoms can be mistaken for herbicide damage or virus symptoms.  They include vein clearing until the entire leaf becomes chlorotic, stunting, deformation, virescence (greening of flowers), phyllody (development of leaf-like flower petals), reddening of foliage, reduced root system, and sterility.  Aster yellows does not typically kill perennial host plants. The symptoms caused by the disease are exacerbated by hot climates while some plants in cooler climates may be asymptomatic.Characteristic symptoms specific to the carrot include initial vein clearing and chlorosis, followed by production of many adventitious shoots, with the tops looking like a witches’-broom.  The internodes of such shoots are short as are the leaf petioles.  Young leaves are smaller and dry up while the petioles of older leaves twist and break off.  Any remaining older leaves turn bronze or red late in the season.  Floral parts are deformed and roots are smaller, abnormally shaped, and have woolly secondary roots.  The carrot roots are predisposed to soft rots in the field and storage and taste unpleasant to the consumer.	 sunflower Aster yellows

This virus was first characterized in cucumbers (Cucumis sativus) showing mosaic symptoms in 1934, hence the name Cucumber mosaic. Since then, it has been found to infect a great variety of other plants. These include other vegetables such as squash, melons, peppers, eggplants, tomatoes, beans, carrots, celery, lettuce, spinach, beets, many ornamentals and bedding plants, such as Narcissus, and various weeds. Its presence has been confirmed on every continent of the world, including Antarctica.Symptoms seen with this virus include leaf mosaic or mottling (Fig. 1), yellowing, ringspots, stunting, and leaf, flower and fruit distortion. CMV also induces a type of symptom on leaves known as the "shoestring" effect on many host species. This effect causes young leaves to appear narrow and the entire plant to be stunted.Specifically, CMV can cause cucumbers to turn pale and bumpy. The leaves of these plants turn mosaic and their rugosity is often changed, making leaves wrinkled and misshapen. Growth of these plants is usually also stunted and produces few flowers. Often, cucumber fruits are oddly shaped, appear gray, and tested bitter. These appearances lead to them being referred to as "white pickles".Tomato plants are usually stunted and have poorly shaped leaves, or "fernleaf", when infected by CMV. Also certain strains of CMV can cause partial or total crop loss. CMV in peppers causes slightly different symptoms than the previously mentioned. Pepper plants often have severe foliar damage, shown as mosaic and necrotic rings. Often the peppers themselves are misshapen and contain chlorotic rings and spots. In celery, CMV causes streaking and spotting and can be often confused with symptoms of the celery mosaic virus. Symptoms of CMV in lettuce, such as chlorosis, plant stunting and often do not properly head, can be very similar to those of lettuce mosaic virus.CMV has also been identified in a lesser extent to a number of plant species. It is found to be a minor virus infecting Allium crops. The virus infection causes extensive malformation on garlic plants, and mild malformation to severe necrotic streaks on onion leaves. The severe damages on garlic plants and difficulty of aphids transmission of garlic isolate, were possible causal for the rare CMV on garlic. Genetically, the two onion isolates from Turkey (CMV-14.3Po and CMV-15.5Po) are highly similar to others isolated from various plant species in Mediterranean, European, and East Asian countries. CMV was also detected on American beautyberry, an important wildlife and pollinator food source plant native to North America.In plant tissue this virus makes characteristic viral inclusion bodies which can be diagnostic. They are hexagonal in shape (Fig. 2) and stain both in a protein stain and a nucleic acid stain. The inclusions can also be rhomboidal, may appear hollow (Fig. 2) and can form larger aggregates. The inclusions are not uniformly distributed and can be found in epidermal (Fig. 2), mesophyll, and stomatal cells. These inclusions are made up of virus particles.			 sunflower Cucumber mosaic virus

Stem canker on sunflower is caused by the fungal pathogen Phomopsis helianthi (teleomorph = Diaporthe helianthi). There are many "Phomopsis" species that have a broad host range, but "Phomopsis helianthi" is the primary pathogen that infects sunflower, although it has also been seen to infect other, secondary hosts. Some "Phomopsis" species have been found to be able to cause disease on several host genera.  Sunflower hosts that found in high densities are particularly susceptible to attack by the pathogen due to the microclimate  formed in crowded areas. This microclimate has a high humidity and allows for infection to proceed rapidly. There has also been recent molecular evidence to suggest there are several genetically distinct species of Phomopsis that can cause disease on the sunflower hosts.Initial symptoms of P. helianthi infection can be found at the attachment of petiole to the stem on the lower portion of the plant. Initial infection will cause brown necrotic regions with a chlorotic border. Eventually these regions will grow into larger, brown to tan lesions and eventually into large cankers. Cankers are found on the stem and will have a sunken border. Cankers can be long, up to 6 inches, but do not appear until flowering. Other early symptoms can include necrosis and bronzing of intervenial areas of leaves at or above the stem lesion. Wilting and death of leaves above the canker also occurs. Leaves above the site of inoculation can also show symptoms of being water soaked. This is sometimes accompanied by leave distortion.  Phomopsis stem canker is also characterized by extensive pith degradation to the point where the stalk is easily crushed under moderate thumb pressure. Wilting is also a typical symptom, and extensive wilting can eventually lead to lodging later in the season. Phomopsis also produces mycotoxins, which can cause additional symptoms such as premature ripening or early plant death.Disease identification is facilitated by observation of fruiting structures. Perithecia are found on cortical tissues and will produce globular to sub-cylindrical asci with two-celled ascospores. It has been observed that isolates from stem canker in the United States will readily form perithecia when grown in culture, but those from Europe will not. This suggests that there may be several species or biotypes of Phomopsis that cause stem canker worldwide. Pycnidia, the asexual fruiting bodies, can be detected on the stem and leaf lesions throughout the disease cycle. They are embedded in the tissue, dark brown and globular. The conidia come in two types, but the most common is beta conidia that are threadlike, hyaline and can be curled or straight.	 sunflower Diaporthe helianthi

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 sunflower Fusarium solani

Gibberella fujikuroi is most widely known for its disease producing capabilities in rice, but barley, millet, sugarcane and maize are also susceptible. In all infected plants, similar symptoms have been found, though rice has been most predominantly studied. The most telltale symptom of Bakanae is the tall, spindly look of the plant. This is a result of the gibberellins, or growth hormones, the fungus secretes. Infected plants are easy to pick out, then, as they often rise above the rest of the healthy plants with regularly secreted growth hormones.  However, it is also possible that stunting may occur, along with Chlorosis of the leaves of the plant, root lesions, or empty grains of plants grown to maturity.	 sunflower Gibberella fujikuroi

There are eight different species that cause yield loss of sunflowers; however, Alternaria helianthi is the primary causal agent and most widespread. The main hosts are sunflowers (Helianthus annuus); however, it has been proven that safflower (Carthamus tinctorius), noogoora burr (Xanthium pungens), cocklebur (Xanthium strumarium), and Bathurst burr (Xanthium spinosum) can serve as alternative hosts for the pathogen.	 sunflower Helminthosporium helianthi

L. taurica is the pathogen responsible for powdery mildew on onions, but it can also infect peppers, tomatoes, eggplant, cotton, and garlic. While L. taurica can infect many different plants it is actually very host specific. Different races of L. taurica can only infect certain crops, and even specific cultivars within the same crop. An accurate way to describe its host specificity is that this disease is, “a composite species consisting of many host-specific races." Symptoms of Onion Powdery Mildew (OPM) are usually seen as circular or oblong lesions that are 5 to 20 mm and have a chlorotic or necrotic appearance. The lesions appear on older leaves before the bulb of the onion begins to form, but also can occur on the younger leaves towards the end of the season. As the disease progresses signs of OPM can also be seen. On the lesions white mycelium can be found with conidiophores bearing either lanceolate or rounded condia.	 sunflower Leveillula taurica

One of the most harmful seed and soil borne pathogens, Macrophomina phaseolina is a fungus that infects nearly 500 plant species in more than 100 families. The hosts include: peanut, cabbage, pepper, chickpea, soybean, sunflower, sweet potato, alfalfa, sesame, potato, sorghum, wheat, and corn, among others. The identification of isolates of M. phaseolina is usually based on morphology and efforts to divide the pathogen into subspecies, but because there are wide intraspecific variations in the phenotype of the isolates, these criteria are often not reliable. The failure to correctly detect and identify M. phaseolina using conventional culture-based morphological techniques has led scientists to develop nucleic acid-based molecular approaches, such as highly sensitive and specific polymerase chain reaction-based methods. Researchers have also recently created species-specific oligonucleotide primers and digoxigenin-labeled probes in hopes of better identifying and detecting M. phaseolina.The pathogen M. phaseolina affects the fibrovascular system of the roots and basal internodes of its host, impeding the transport of water and nutrients to the upper parts of the plant. As a result, progressive wilting, premature dying, loss of vigor, and reduced yield are characteristic symptoms of M. phaseolina infection. The fungus also causes many diseases like damping off, seedling blight, collar rot, stem rot, charcoal rot, basal stem rot, and root rot. Although brown lesions may form on the hypocotyls or emerging seedlings, many symptoms occur during or after flowering, including grey discoloration of the stem and taproots, shredding of plant tissue in the stem and top of the taproot, and hollowing of the stem. Small black dots may form beneath the epidermis of the lower stem and in the taproot, giving the stems and roots a charcoal-sprinkled appearance. When the epidermis is removed, small and black microsclerotia (a sign of the disease) may be so numerous that they give a greyish-black tint to the plant tissue. In addition, reddish-brown discoloration and black streaks can form in the pith and vascular tissues of the root and stem.	 sunflower Macrophomina phaseolina

These nematodes cause symptoms both on leaves and roots. Foliar symptoms of root-knot disease may be expressed at any time during the growing season. These symptoms of nematode damage on peanut plants range from stunting, yellowing, wilting and even plant death.  Ferris (1999–2012), also reported that nematodes cause yellowing; mid-day wilting; symptoms of water and nutrient stress; and sometimes death, especially if the nematode is interacting with other organisms.  They can appear in a peanut crop beginning about 100 days after planting or after periods of dry hot weather.  Areas of root-knot nematode damaged peanut are usually round to oblong in shape, and rows of infected plants may never overlap as those of healthy plants. It is common for plants to wilt and eventually die in areas where nematode populations are high.Root symptoms are similar to those caused by all nematodes including a reduction in number of feeder roots and root stunting, but root knot nematodes cause unique symptoms on roots and pods. Nematodes cause galls (knots) to form on both roots and pods of the peanut, and these galls are highly diagnostic for root-knot nematode presence compared to other nematodes affecting peanut. The presence of galls on roots, pegs and pods appears as single or multiple wart-like growths that may or may not be discolored. As root knot nematode infection progresses, and generally later in the season, secondary root and pod rots cause further damage and eventual death of the plants.Many soil-borne fungi, especially Sclerotium rolfsii (which causes southern stem rot) and Sclerotinia minor (which causes Sclerotinia blight), will infect the weakened peanut plants and cause more plant death. Root knot nematode infection of the peg weakens the peg so that it breaks during harvest, contributing to additional yield losses because the detached pods are then left in the soil. Infection of the pods leads to a decline in yield quality.The damage threshold, or the initial nematode population density at which peanut yields begin to decline, has been reported to be in the range of 1 to 10 eggs and second stage juveniles per 500 cm3 soil for M. arenaria on susceptible peanut cultivars.	 sunflower Meloidogyne arenaria

Plants affected by M. incognita present above ground symptoms of water- and nutrient-stress, yellowing, wilting, and stunting. Below ground galling on roots, bulbs, tubers is the typical symptom. Plant death may occur in high infestation level.	 sunflower Meloidogyne incognita

Because there are so many different hosts for this pathogen, the symptoms are very variable. Common symptoms include abnormal leaf color, abnormal leaf form, wilting leaves, galls, swollen roots, reduced root system, dwarfing and senescence (Cabi 2018). This pathogen does the most damage when present in light soils with hot weather conditions (Alford 2012).	 sunflower Meloidogyne javanica

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 sunflower Nectria haematococca

L. taurica is the pathogen responsible for powdery mildew on onions, but it can also infect peppers, tomatoes, eggplant, cotton, and garlic. While L. taurica can infect many different plants it is actually very host specific. Different races of L. taurica can only infect certain crops, and even specific cultivars within the same crop. An accurate way to describe its host specificity is that this disease is, “a composite species consisting of many host-specific races." Symptoms of Onion Powdery Mildew (OPM) are usually seen as circular or oblong lesions that are 5 to 20 mm and have a chlorotic or necrotic appearance. The lesions appear on older leaves before the bulb of the onion begins to form, but also can occur on the younger leaves towards the end of the season. As the disease progresses signs of OPM can also be seen. On the lesions white mycelium can be found with conidiophores bearing either lanceolate or rounded condia.	 sunflower Oidiopsis sicula

Stem canker on sunflower is caused by the fungal pathogen Phomopsis helianthi (teleomorph = Diaporthe helianthi). There are many "Phomopsis" species that have a broad host range, but "Phomopsis helianthi" is the primary pathogen that infects sunflower, although it has also been seen to infect other, secondary hosts. Some "Phomopsis" species have been found to be able to cause disease on several host genera.  Sunflower hosts that found in high densities are particularly susceptible to attack by the pathogen due to the microclimate  formed in crowded areas. This microclimate has a high humidity and allows for infection to proceed rapidly. There has also been recent molecular evidence to suggest there are several genetically distinct species of Phomopsis that can cause disease on the sunflower hosts.Initial symptoms of P. helianthi infection can be found at the attachment of petiole to the stem on the lower portion of the plant. Initial infection will cause brown necrotic regions with a chlorotic border. Eventually these regions will grow into larger, brown to tan lesions and eventually into large cankers. Cankers are found on the stem and will have a sunken border. Cankers can be long, up to 6 inches, but do not appear until flowering. Other early symptoms can include necrosis and bronzing of intervenial areas of leaves at or above the stem lesion. Wilting and death of leaves above the canker also occurs. Leaves above the site of inoculation can also show symptoms of being water soaked. This is sometimes accompanied by leave distortion.  Phomopsis stem canker is also characterized by extensive pith degradation to the point where the stalk is easily crushed under moderate thumb pressure. Wilting is also a typical symptom, and extensive wilting can eventually lead to lodging later in the season. Phomopsis also produces mycotoxins, which can cause additional symptoms such as premature ripening or early plant death.Disease identification is facilitated by observation of fruiting structures. Perithecia are found on cortical tissues and will produce globular to sub-cylindrical asci with two-celled ascospores. It has been observed that isolates from stem canker in the United States will readily form perithecia when grown in culture, but those from Europe will not. This suggests that there may be several species or biotypes of Phomopsis that cause stem canker worldwide. Pycnidia, the asexual fruiting bodies, can be detected on the stem and leaf lesions throughout the disease cycle. They are embedded in the tissue, dark brown and globular. The conidia come in two types, but the most common is beta conidia that are threadlike, hyaline and can be curled or straight.	 sunflower Phomopsis helianthi

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 sunflower Phymatotrichopsis omnivora

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 sunflower Phymatotrichum omnivorum

Phytoplasmas can infect and cause various symptoms in more than 700 plant species. One characteristic symptom is abnormal floral organ development including phyllody (i.e., the production of leaf-like structures in place of flowers) and virescence (i.e., the development of green flowers attributable to a loss of pigment by petal cells). Phytoplasma-harboring flowering plants may nevertheless be sterile. The expression of genes involved in maintaining the apical meristem or in the development of floral organs is altered in the morphologically affected floral organs of phytoplasma-infected plants.A phytoplasma infection often triggers leaf yellowing, probably due to the presence of phytoplasma cells in phloem, which can affect phloem function and carbohydrate transport, inhibit chlorophyll biosynthesis, and trigger chlorophyll breakdown. These symptoms may be attributable to stress caused by the infection rather than a specific pathogenetic process.Many phytoplasma-infected plants develop a bushy or "witches' broom" appearance due to changes in their normal growth patterns. Most plants exhibit apical dominance but infection can trigger the proliferation of axillary (side) shoots and a reduction in internode size. Such symptoms are actually useful in the commercial production of poinsettias. Infection triggers more axillary shoot production; the poinsettia plants thus produce more than a single flower.	 sunflower Phytoplasma

Plasmopara halstedii is an obligate biotroph that attacks the flowering plants of the family Asteraceae, found to infect the genus’ Helianthus, Bidens, Artemisia, and Xanthium. The pathogen has the strongest impact on Helianthus, degrading flower yields in the species H. argophyllus, H. debilis, H. petiolaris and H. annuus. H. annuus, the common sunflower, is also the most common host of P. halstedii. Xanthium strumarium, the common cocklebur, and Ambrosia artemisiifolia, or ragweed, have been shown to act as significant wild hosts.Plasmopara halstedii causes significant yield losses due to the production of infertile sunflowers. Infertility due to P. halstedii is a result of sporulation on the flowering bodies as well as seed damping off due to root infection. Other symptoms include plant stunting, chlorosis, root browning and alteration of secondary metabolism of infected plants.As an oomycete, P. halstedii releases motile zoospores as secondary inoculum. In these cases, secondary infection symptoms are much less severe than primary symptoms. A sign of the disease is the “typical downy appearance” resulting from sporulation on the bottom surface of the leaves.	 sunflower Plasmopara halstedii

Root lesion nematodes infect a great variety of hosts. Pratylenchus penetrans alone has over 350 host plants. They include agricultural crops such as soybeans, potatoes, corn, bananas, and wheat. The genus is found most often in corn. Signs of disease are similar in most plants and generally include necrotic lesions of the roots. The lesions can also be entrances for pathogenic bacteria and fungi, which produce secondary infections. Above ground the plant becomes stunted, chlorotic, and wilted, and it often dies. A crop field may be patchy as plants wither and die. Root lesion nematodes can cause significant yield losses.	 sunflower Pratylenchus

Pseudomonas cichorii is non-host specific as it does not infect just one host. Its host range includes lettuce, pepper, celery, coffee, wheat, basil and several other host plants. Symptoms of the causal agent vary depending on the host and the area of the plant infected. In general, pseudomonas cichorii is seen to cause leaf blighting and spotting. The first appearance of symptoms involves a water soaked lesion that develops at the edge of the leaf, midvein or randomly across the leaf  These lesions progressively turn black or brown and may be surrounded by yellow halos. These lesions also often “coalesce and progress to severe leaf blight under favorable conditions for the bacterium.” When the infected leaves become dry, the spots often look brittle and crack.	 sunflower Pseudomonas cichorii

Pythium aphanidermatum is responsible for pre- and post-emergence damping off.  Pre-emergence damping off is when the seed is infected prior to germination.  This can result in poor or no germination, and is observable as a browning or rotting of the seed.  Post-emergence damping off takes place after germination and results in a thinning, water-soaked stem near the plant collar, which eventually causes the collapse of the plant.  P. aphanidermatum can also cause root rot.  Symptoms of root rot include stunted growth, chlorotic leaves, leaf drop, and wilting.  The infection begins at the root tip, and can cause the infected region to lose its protective outer layer, exposing the inner root to other pathogens	 sunflower Pythium aphanidermatum

Pythium irregulare is an oomycete that causes pre- and post-emergence damping off, as well as root rot. Pre-emergence damping off occurs when P. irregulare infects seeds before they emerge, causing them to rot and turn brown, thus preventing successful growth. Alternatively, post-emergence damping off occurs when the oomycete infects just after the seed has germinated. This usually causes infection in the roots and stem which appears as water soaking and necrosis. Depending on the severity, plants may collapse or be severely stunted. In plants that are older and more established, P. irregulare causes root rot. This will initially cause necrotic lesions, which leads to chlorosis, reduced yield, poor growth, and stunting due to inadequate water and nutrient acquisition by the roots. Additionally, P. irregulare is often found coinfecting with other Pythium species. All three of these diseases caused by P. irregulare can be caused by other pathogens as well, so a disease diagnosis is not necessarily indicative of P. irregulareIn order to identify Pythium irregulare it is necessary to isolate the organism and observe it microscopically. First, it is important to identify that the microbe is an oomycete by looking for characteristics that are specific to oomycetes, such as coenocytic hyphae, zoospores, and oospores. After that, one can identify the microbe as being in the genera Pythium by observing disease symptoms, host range, as well as the presence of a vesicle, where zoospores form, which is attached to the sporangia. In contrast, most other oomycetes do not have a vesicle and the zoospores form in the sporangia. Finally, once the genera has been identified, it is helpful to use a dichotomous key to identify the species. Some of the key identifiers for P. irregulare include oogonia with irregular shaped, cylindrical projections, sporangia that occur singly, sporangia that are not filamentous, and oogonia smaller than 30 μm. There are also many genomic tests that can be done to determine species based on specific DNA markers. It is also important to note that many diagnosticians do not identify to the species level because it can be difficult to find all necessary microscopic structures and many management techniques can be applied to all Pythium species.Pythium irregulare has a very broad host range, including many agronomically and horticulturally important crops and is found on every continent except for Antarctica. P. irregulare infects over 200 species, including cereals, legumes, fruits, vegetables, and ornamentals. It differs from many other Pythium species in that it prefers cooler environments. A moist environment is also necessary for disease, which aids motility of spores. It is commonly found in both greenhouses and fields.	 sunflower Pythium irregulare

One of the most harmful seed and soil borne pathogens, Macrophomina phaseolina is a fungus that infects nearly 500 plant species in more than 100 families. The hosts include: peanut, cabbage, pepper, chickpea, soybean, sunflower, sweet potato, alfalfa, sesame, potato, sorghum, wheat, and corn, among others. The identification of isolates of M. phaseolina is usually based on morphology and efforts to divide the pathogen into subspecies, but because there are wide intraspecific variations in the phenotype of the isolates, these criteria are often not reliable. The failure to correctly detect and identify M. phaseolina using conventional culture-based morphological techniques has led scientists to develop nucleic acid-based molecular approaches, such as highly sensitive and specific polymerase chain reaction-based methods. Researchers have also recently created species-specific oligonucleotide primers and digoxigenin-labeled probes in hopes of better identifying and detecting M. phaseolina.The pathogen M. phaseolina affects the fibrovascular system of the roots and basal internodes of its host, impeding the transport of water and nutrients to the upper parts of the plant. As a result, progressive wilting, premature dying, loss of vigor, and reduced yield are characteristic symptoms of M. phaseolina infection. The fungus also causes many diseases like damping off, seedling blight, collar rot, stem rot, charcoal rot, basal stem rot, and root rot. Although brown lesions may form on the hypocotyls or emerging seedlings, many symptoms occur during or after flowering, including grey discoloration of the stem and taproots, shredding of plant tissue in the stem and top of the taproot, and hollowing of the stem. Small black dots may form beneath the epidermis of the lower stem and in the taproot, giving the stems and roots a charcoal-sprinkled appearance. When the epidermis is removed, small and black microsclerotia (a sign of the disease) may be so numerous that they give a greyish-black tint to the plant tissue. In addition, reddish-brown discoloration and black streaks can form in the pith and vascular tissues of the root and stem.	 sunflower Rhizoctonia bataticola

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 sunflower Rhizoctonia solani

Certain strains of Rhizopus microsporus use agricultural rice as a host, causing the disease Rice Seedling Blight. This infection is first observed by the fast swelling of seedling roots, but displays no further signs of infection. The main causal agent of Rice Seedling Blight is attributed to the endosymbiotic relationship with Paraburkholderia sp. The production of rhizoxin by the bacteria inhibits the ability of rice plant cells to perform mitosis, dramatically weakening or outright killing young rice seedlings. The killing of the plant cells is beneficial to both the bacteria and the fungal host, as the two live as necrotrophic pathogens.Rhizopus microsporus is similarly one of three common Rhizopus species to cause the disease Rhizopus Head Rot in confectionery sunflower species. Alongside R. oryzae, R. microsporus causes the premier head rot of sunflower in South Africa. Susceptibility to disease changes throughout the age of the host. Heads inoculated at the budding stage simply do not become infected. However, when inoculated at the anthesis stage, loss was relatively high. Yield was not reduced significantly when heads were inoculated at the seed development stage.The initial symptoms appear as small, dispersed water-soaked spots on the back of the sunflower head. As the spots expand, mycelial growth expands into parenchyma cells, further killing cells within the head. Later stages of disease have external masses of mycelium among clumps of black sporangia, dispersing spores abiotically, and by birds. The diseased heads can completely rot in 3 to 7 days.Rhizopus microsporus has been found to be the species involved in Rhizopus Ear Rot of maize as well. This is characterized by small spotted sporangia structures, mycelium growth on the ear, and eventual ear and grain rot.	 sunflower Rhizopus microsporus

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 sunflower Sclerotinia libertiana

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 sunflower Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

One of the most harmful seed and soil borne pathogens, Macrophomina phaseolina is a fungus that infects nearly 500 plant species in more than 100 families. The hosts include: peanut, cabbage, pepper, chickpea, soybean, sunflower, sweet potato, alfalfa, sesame, potato, sorghum, wheat, and corn, among others. The identification of isolates of M. phaseolina is usually based on morphology and efforts to divide the pathogen into subspecies, but because there are wide intraspecific variations in the phenotype of the isolates, these criteria are often not reliable. The failure to correctly detect and identify M. phaseolina using conventional culture-based morphological techniques has led scientists to develop nucleic acid-based molecular approaches, such as highly sensitive and specific polymerase chain reaction-based methods. Researchers have also recently created species-specific oligonucleotide primers and digoxigenin-labeled probes in hopes of better identifying and detecting M. phaseolina.The pathogen M. phaseolina affects the fibrovascular system of the roots and basal internodes of its host, impeding the transport of water and nutrients to the upper parts of the plant. As a result, progressive wilting, premature dying, loss of vigor, and reduced yield are characteristic symptoms of M. phaseolina infection. The fungus also causes many diseases like damping off, seedling blight, collar rot, stem rot, charcoal rot, basal stem rot, and root rot. Although brown lesions may form on the hypocotyls or emerging seedlings, many symptoms occur during or after flowering, including grey discoloration of the stem and taproots, shredding of plant tissue in the stem and top of the taproot, and hollowing of the stem. Small black dots may form beneath the epidermis of the lower stem and in the taproot, giving the stems and roots a charcoal-sprinkled appearance. When the epidermis is removed, small and black microsclerotia (a sign of the disease) may be so numerous that they give a greyish-black tint to the plant tissue. In addition, reddish-brown discoloration and black streaks can form in the pith and vascular tissues of the root and stem.	 sunflower Sclerotium bataticola

Powdery mildew is manifest on the plant by white powdery fungal growth on the surface of the leaf, usually both sides of the leaf show fungal growth. The host tissue is frequently stunted, distorted, discolored, and scarred. The fruit of infected plants are usually smaller and the flavor is affected negatively, as fewer sugars and solids are stored in the fruit.	 sunflower Sphaerotheca fuliginea

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 sunflower Thanatephorus cucumeris

Like other plant pathogenic viruses, TMV has a very wide host range and has different effects depending on the host being infected. Tobacco mosaic virus has been known to cause a production loss for flue cured tobacco of up to two percent in North Carolina. It is known to infect members of nine plant families, and at least 125 individual species, including tobacco, tomato, pepper (all members of the useful Solanaceae), cucumbers, a number of ornamental flowers, and beans including Phaseolus vulgaris and Vigna unguiculata. There are many different strains. The first symptom of this virus disease is a light green coloration between the veins of young leaves. This is followed quickly by the development of a "mosaic" or mottled pattern of light and dark green areas in the leaves. Rugosity may also be seen where the infected plant leaves display small localized random wrinkles. These symptoms develop quickly and are more pronounced on younger leaves. Its infection does not result in plant death, but if infection occurs early in the season, plants are stunted. Lower leaves are subjected to "mosaic burn"  especially during periods of hot and dry weather. In these cases, large dead areas develop in the leaves. This constitutes one of the most destructive phases of Tobacco mosaic virus infection. Infected leaves may be crinkled, puckered, or elongated. However, if TMV infects crops like grape and apple, it is almost symptomless. TMV is able  to infect and complete its replication cycle in a plant pathogenic fungus,TMV is able to enter and replicate in cells of C. acutatum, C. clavatum, and C. theobromicola, which may not be an exception, although it has neither been found nor probably searched for in nature.	 sunflower Tobacco mosaic virus

There are many strains of Verticillium dahliae which are categorized into vegetative compatibility groups (VCG). These groups comprise strains that are able to exchange genetic material via anastomosis. Each VCG affects a few or only one host and the virulence of the pathogen varies by host. While individual V. dahliae strains are relatively host specific, as a species it has a wide range.Verticillium dahliae has a very wide host range, affecting over 300 plant species. Some susceptible crops include Brussels sprouts, cabbage, eggplant, cucumbers, mint, pepper, potatoes, pumpkin, spinach, tomato, watermelon, honeydew, and cantaloupe. Of these, tomato, potato, and eggplant have resistant or tolerant varieties.Symptoms of this disease are seen throughout the plant. Leaves may have abnormal coloration, necrotic areas, wilt, and/or fall off the plant. The stem may have discolored vascular tissue, exhibit rosetting (shortened internodes of the plant caused by reduced growth, resulting in a rosette-like appearance), and/or be stunted. Early senescence and dieback may also occur.Microsclerotia can be seen under a lens as small black structures in the vasculature of living and dead plants. This feature can be used to distinguish V. dahliae from V. albo-atrum, the other verticillium wilt pathogen.	 sunflower Verticillium dahliae

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 sunflower Whetzelinia sclerotiorum

The symptoms that plants exhibit in response to the pathogenicity of Xiphinema americanum are similar to those of other migratory ectoparasitic nematodes of roots. It is common to see poor growth and or stunting of the plant, yellowing or wilting of the foliage, and reduced root systems which can include root necrosis, lack of feeder or secondary roots, and occasional tufts of stubby rootlets.Young, shortleaved yellow pine trees with moderate swelling of roots with clusters of short, stubby branches were the first demonstration of X. americanum pathogenicity in 1955. X. americanum can also cause severe effects on foliage, sometimes causing chlorosis and complete defoliation as seen on Guatemalan coffee trees. The dagger nematode causes the devitalization of root tips and overall root death when they feed at the root tips and root sides of strawberry plants. Reddish-brown lesions that turn black and necrotic with time result at the sites of feeding, and result in reduced root systems and stunted tops.Xiphinema americanum is listed as a C-rated pest in California due to its wide host range of California crops. C-rated pests are widespread, and are of known economic or environmental detriment, according to The California Department of Food and Agriculture. Due to X. americanum's difficulty in maintaining high populations in frequently tilled soils (see Control), the dagger nematode is mainly an economic problem on biennial and perennial crops rather than annual crops (except for damage to emerging seedlings).	 sunflower Xiphinema americanum

Armillaria mellea typically infects hardwood trees and conifers but sometimes will infect non-woody monocots and a few herbaceous plants. There are few signs, and the ones that do exist are often hard to find. The most prominent sign is honey-colored mushrooms at the base of the infected plant. Additional signs include white, fan-shaped mycelia and black rhizomorphs with diameters between 1/32nd of an inch and 1/8th of an inch. These usually are not as noticeable because they occur beneath the bark and in the soil, respectively. The symptoms are much more numerous, including slower growth, dieback of branches, yellowing foliage, rotted wood at base and/or roots, external cankers, cracking bark, bleeding stem, leaf wilting, defoliation, and rapid death. Leaf wilting, defoliation, and dieback occur after the destruction of the cambium.	 sweetgum Armillaria mellea

Armillaria species infect a wide variety of woody plants. In a survey of 250 permanent plots of trees in Albania, Armillaria tabescens affected multiple species of trees including fir species, where it invaded when the plant was stressed. Tsopelas et al. reported Armillaria tabescens to be more prevalent in areas where the trees were stressed due to limited moisture. In oak trees, it was slightly more damaging and could kill young trees. Armillaria tabescens was also recorded in poplar and eucalyptus plantations, and almond trees were found to be very susceptible to infection. The results of the study by Lushaj et al. showed that Armillaria tabescens was most frequently recorded on fruit and ornamental trees compared to the other species.Armillaria tabescens causes separation of the bark from the wood by the production of mycelial fans in the trunk, a common sign of Armillaria root rot. It also causes gummosis, patches of gummy material on the surface of plants, which occurs in response to an external stimulus which causes the plant to ooze sap. Other common symptoms are soft rot of cortex, dwarfing, dieback, wilting, and abnormal coloring of the leaves. Small trees are killed rapidly by Armillaria tabescens and the symptoms aren’t noticeable until the leaves wilt. However, on larger trees symptoms occur earlier and start as a thin crown with small leaves. A crown of a tree refers to any branches or foliage that are growing out from the trunk. Therefore, thinning of the crown would mean reduced branches and leaves. The trees eventually start yellowing and defoliating followed by fast wilting and dying of limbs. The fungus is a white rot so it breaks down lignin in the wood. The breaking down of the lignin leads to the trees becoming hollow.	 sweetgum Armillaria tabescens

An irregular browning leaf margin which may or may not be bordered by a pale halo.Symptoms re-occur every year, spreading throughout the tree crown, eventually killing the host plant.	 sweetgum Bacterial leaf scorch

Black rotBotryosphaeria obtusa enters the fruit through wounds. These can be made by insects, birds or growth cracks. At first a brown spot, near the calyx, appears on the fruit. The spot on the fruit then enlarges and black/brown rings appear on the fruit. The fruit holds its shape, however, unlike other fruit diseases. The fruit will then wither up and can remain on the tree for another year before falling off. During this time pycnidia appear on the surface of the rotted fruit.Frogeye leaf spotIn leaves the fungus begins by causing purple specks on infected leaves. These then enlarge to cause large spots on the leaf, developing a brown color. The spots appear to have rings of brown with a purple margin, thus giving it its frogeye appearance. The spots can then produce pycnidia which can separate this species of fungus from other possible leaf fungi.CankerOn twigs, branches and trunks B. obtusa can infect where there has been a winter injury or fire blight cankers. Slightly sunken reddish/brown spots appear on the infected areas of bark. These then enlarge to form cankers, which can then enlarge slightly more each year. The bark usually dies and can, after time, be pulled away from the tree. In older cankers the pycnidia appear on the bark.Black dead arm disease of grapevineBotryosphaeria obtusa is the pathogen of black dead arm disease of grapevine. It has been shown to be able to oxidise wood δ-resveratrol into delta-viniferin.	 sweetgum Botryosphaeria obtusa

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 sweetgum Botryosphaeria rhodina

Botryosphaeria ribis is an ascomycete plant pathogen that primarily affects woody hosts in a number of temperate and tropical regions. The susceptible hosts include a number of economically important plants such as apple, peach, almond, banana, and walnut trees, among others.  The disease is noted by cankers, leaf spots, and necrosis, as well as twig dieback. On healthy leaves, the necrosis begins apically at the margins, extending back along the midrib, occasionally reaching the base and causing complete blight of the leaf.  Twig dieback also starts apically and works towards the center of the plant.  It is characterized by a slow necrosis of the branch, leaving large, dead limbs on the upper portions of trees.  Under the microscope, it can be identified by its immersed, pyriform perithecia (pear-shaped, spore-containing structures), which have a brown exterior wall.  The ascospores within the perithecia are ellipsoid in shape, with a smooth exterior and granular cytoplasm.  The anamorph (asexual stage) of B. ribis is Fusicoccum ribis, and although less abundant, it is characterized by globose pycnidia containing smooth, hyaline macro- and microconidia.  These symptoms have the potential to significantly decrease yield or kill the host.	 sweetgum Botryosphaeria ribis

This fungus is often found as a saprophyte on logs of woody species. It causes sapstreak disease in just one host species: Acer saccharum, commonly known as the sugar maple or rock maple. Symptoms include a sparse crown, dieback, dwarfed leaves, and cankers. Infected trees may die suddenly or languish for 2–4 years. The symptom most characteristic of sapstreak disease is yellowish-green stained wood that is also very moist. Once the wood is cut and dries, the stains turn light brown, so they're difficult to see and diagnose at that point.	 sweetgum Ceratocystis coerulescens

Armillaria species infect a wide variety of woody plants. In a survey of 250 permanent plots of trees in Albania, Armillaria tabescens affected multiple species of trees including fir species, where it invaded when the plant was stressed. Tsopelas et al. reported Armillaria tabescens to be more prevalent in areas where the trees were stressed due to limited moisture. In oak trees, it was slightly more damaging and could kill young trees. Armillaria tabescens was also recorded in poplar and eucalyptus plantations, and almond trees were found to be very susceptible to infection. The results of the study by Lushaj et al. showed that Armillaria tabescens was most frequently recorded on fruit and ornamental trees compared to the other species.Armillaria tabescens causes separation of the bark from the wood by the production of mycelial fans in the trunk, a common sign of Armillaria root rot. It also causes gummosis, patches of gummy material on the surface of plants, which occurs in response to an external stimulus which causes the plant to ooze sap. Other common symptoms are soft rot of cortex, dwarfing, dieback, wilting, and abnormal coloring of the leaves. Small trees are killed rapidly by Armillaria tabescens and the symptoms aren’t noticeable until the leaves wilt. However, on larger trees symptoms occur earlier and start as a thin crown with small leaves. A crown of a tree refers to any branches or foliage that are growing out from the trunk. Therefore, thinning of the crown would mean reduced branches and leaves. The trees eventually start yellowing and defoliating followed by fast wilting and dying of limbs. The fungus is a white rot so it breaks down lignin in the wood. The breaking down of the lignin leads to the trees becoming hollow.	 sweetgum Clitocybe tabescens

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 sweetgum Fusarium solani

Symptoms and signs of fungus disease are often found underground. The H. annosum infections cause an abnormal change in structure in the roots that climbs up to the butt of the tree. More than half the tree may be killed before any symptoms appear to the human eye. Basidiocarps can take up to one and a half or even three years to be visible. This infections causes the trees to have abnormal needle growth, pale yellow barks, and the trees to wither and die. This root disease typically causes the tree to have a thin crown from bottom up and inside out. Trees will eventually die. A landscape scale symptom is the rings of dead trees in various stages of decay and death, with the oldest at the center and progressively younger moving outward. The white rot fungus found in the roots is the sign of telling whether the tree has been affected by H. annosum. The bark changes colors as the stages progress, they go from pale yellow, to a crusty light brown, and finally in its advanced stage it turns white with the signature of Fomes annosus―a sprinkled streak of black spots. Another sign is the leaking part of the root that causes a compact mass to form between it and the sand.	 sweetgum Heterobasidion annosum

Hosts and symptoms are crucial to know when trying to identify a pathogen of disease. In order for the pathogen to be identified, its common hosts and key symptoms must be accessible. The primary hosts of Hymenochaete corrugata are broad-leaved trees, primarily hazel and willow. The disease is called glue crust and stems from the pathogen's habit of moving across trees and gluing together twigs and branches that are in contact with each other. Common symptoms are an uneven surface caused by setae (surface hairs) and a grey or brown surface tinted lilac on the tree bark. The main sign is the presence of white fruiting bodies that form crusts attached to the trees, typically on the bark of the trunk. Setae can also be seen on the tree bark in the trunk and branches. These fruiting bodies develop cracks over time.	 sweetgum Hymenochaete agglutinans

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 sweetgum Lasiodiplodia theobromae

Nectria cinnabarina, also known as coral spot, is a weak pathogen of broadleaf trees. While beech is the main host, the parasite can also affect Sycamore, Horse Chestnut, and Hornbeam. This pathogen usually affects trees that have already been weakened as a result of stressful factors, such as drought or fungal infestation. Physical damage can also make the tree susceptible to the pathogen. The pathogen forms pink fungal blobs (indicative of its sexual stage) on the outside of dead wood which turn a reddish-brown color and become quite hard. The blobs are usually 1 to 4 mm in length. Other symptoms include small twigs and branches dying back and branch necrosis. The bark that is infected becomes weak and tends to snap off in windy weather. The pathogen thrives in dead wood and airborne spores infect living trees and shrubs through wounds. Since it is caused by a weak fungus, isolation of the pathogen from diseased tissue and an analysis for fungal properties, such as induced sporulation or microscopically seeing cross-walls in hyphae, can aid in diagnosis. Furthermore, many fungi studies in media involve the formation of concentric hyphal zonations or rings of sporulation as the colony develops. This zonation is usually attributed to environmental changes. The sporulation rhythm of N. cinnabarina is conveyed by concentric rings or spirals and is dependent on temperature.	 sweetgum Nectria cinnabarina

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 sweetgum Phymatotrichopsis omnivora

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 sweetgum Phymatotrichum omnivorum

Phytophthora cactorum has an extremely wide host range, and can infect over 200 species or 160 genera of trees, ornamentals, and fruit crops. In general, P. cactorum is capable of infecting both young and old plants, and causes root rots and crown rots of the many genera it infects. Although the symptoms this pathogen produces varies between the types of organisms it infects, in general disease occurs during periods that are both wet and warm. Furthermore, most infections are caused by zoospores entering the plant through wounds.: 34 On older trees, P. cactorum causes the formation of sap exuding dark colored cankers on the trunks of trees, as well as leaf size and number reduction, chlorosis, and dieback of branches. The diagnosis of a P. cactorum infection of trees, is based on the identification of symptoms, in particular the oozing cankers, and confirmation of symptoms in a diagnosis lab or utilization of a field ELISA detection kit. P. cactorum can be a major problem in apple orchards, as it can cause crown, collar, and root rots in apple trees. When infecting apple trees, the organism can attack through wounds either above or below the soil line, impairing phloem and root function, and causing stunting, foliar disorders, and death after several years. Furthermore, because the pathogen causes damage to the phloem of the tree, one diagnostic method is to check for necrotic phloem tissue at the base of the tree which will be orange to red-brown in the early stages and dark brown in the later stages of infection.A good example of P. cactorum causing foliar disease is on ginseng. Foliar disease of ginseng usually occurs during May and early June, causing the leaves to become transparent and papery. Ginseng foliar infection occurs through the rain splash dispersal of spores from the soil onto above ground wounds. Once infected, P. cactorum works its way down to the roots, rotting them and killing the plant.P. cactorum is also one of the causal agents of black rot on orchids. When infecting orchids, this organism first produces small black lesions on the pseudobulbs of the orchid, which then enlarge and may engulf the entire pseudobulb, leaf, or move through the rhizomes to other portions of the plant prior to killing it. Diagnosis of orchid black rot by P. cactorum is through the identification of lemon-shaped zoosporangia with either a papilla or a short pedicel, the presence of oospores, or molecular identification. Since there are multiple species of Phytophthora that are capable of causing disease on orchids, classification only to the genus level is required for proper prescription of disease management techniques.Crown rot or root rot of strawberries is a common example of diseases of fruit crops caused by P. cactorum. On strawberries, P. cactorum infects the roots and the base of the plant causing stunting and reduced leaf size, with possible complete plant collapse later in the season. Similarly to apple trees, crown rots of strawberries caused by P. cactorum can be partially diagnosed by cutting the crown of the plant and observing brown vascular tissues, and root rots by brown or black stunted roots.Leather rot of strawberry is an additional disease affecting strawberry plants, with P. cactorum being the causal agent. Symptoms of this disease include brown patches or green patches with a brown border in immature fruit, with infected mature fruit displaying a purple to brown color, and becoming hard, leathery, or even mummified. Signs include visible mycelium inside of hollow infected berries, as well as mycelium on the surface of berries.  Infected fruit often has an unpleasant taste and odor, which is diagnostic. 	 sweetgum Phytophthora cactorum

Root lesion nematodes infect a great variety of hosts. Pratylenchus penetrans alone has over 350 host plants. They include agricultural crops such as soybeans, potatoes, corn, bananas, and wheat. The genus is found most often in corn. Signs of disease are similar in most plants and generally include necrotic lesions of the roots. The lesions can also be entrances for pathogenic bacteria and fungi, which produce secondary infections. Above ground the plant becomes stunted, chlorotic, and wilted, and it often dies. A crop field may be patchy as plants wither and die. Root lesion nematodes can cause significant yield losses.	 sweetgum Pratylenchus

Root lesion nematode has a wide host range, including hosts like apple, cherry, conifers, roses, tomato, potato, corn, onion and sugarbeets, and ornamentals such as Narcissus. More than 164 hosts for P. penetrans have been recorded.  In the host range there are some hosts that are susceptible, such as wheat, oat, field pea, faba bean, and chickpea, and some that are moderately susceptible, such as barley and canola.Some general symptoms that are produced on infected plants include poor growth, fruit spot, and chlorotic foliage.  These secondary symptoms are often due to plant root stress.  These make it rather difficult to diagnose nematode diseases in general.  The roots when infected produce necrotic lesions, which are darkened areas of dead tissue, on the surface and throughout the cortex of the infected roots.  These lesions turn the root to reddish-brown to black and are initially spotty.  As the nematode continues to feed, the lesions can coalesce to become large necrotic areas of tissue that may eventually girdle the root. The population size of the nematode affects the degree of symptoms.  Low to moderate populations may cause no visible above ground symptoms, while high populations can lead to stunting, nutrient and water deficiencies, and eventual die-back of the plant.  On potato, infection of root lesion nematode can cause a secondary invasion by Verticillium dahliae leading to Potato Early Dying.  Onions are another important host of P. penetrans.  Onions are an important vegetable for consumption in the United States and upon infection the nematodes can limit yield and quality of the bulbs.  Populations of more than 0.01 nematode per cubic centimeter of soil resulted in injury to onions.  There is a negative relationship between the increasing inoculum levels on onion root and top fresh weight at harvest.	 sweetgum Pratylenchus penetrans

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 sweetgum Rhizoctonia solani

Symptoms and signs of fungus disease are often found underground. The H. annosum infections cause an abnormal change in structure in the roots that climbs up to the butt of the tree. More than half the tree may be killed before any symptoms appear to the human eye. Basidiocarps can take up to one and a half or even three years to be visible. This infections causes the trees to have abnormal needle growth, pale yellow barks, and the trees to wither and die. This root disease typically causes the tree to have a thin crown from bottom up and inside out. Trees will eventually die. A landscape scale symptom is the rings of dead trees in various stages of decay and death, with the oldest at the center and progressively younger moving outward. The white rot fungus found in the roots is the sign of telling whether the tree has been affected by H. annosum. The bark changes colors as the stages progress, they go from pale yellow, to a crusty light brown, and finally in its advanced stage it turns white with the signature of Fomes annosus―a sprinkled streak of black spots. Another sign is the leaking part of the root that causes a compact mass to form between it and the sand.	 sweetgum Spiniger meineckellus

Nectria cinnabarina, also known as coral spot, is a weak pathogen of broadleaf trees. While beech is the main host, the parasite can also affect Sycamore, Horse Chestnut, and Hornbeam. This pathogen usually affects trees that have already been weakened as a result of stressful factors, such as drought or fungal infestation. Physical damage can also make the tree susceptible to the pathogen. The pathogen forms pink fungal blobs (indicative of its sexual stage) on the outside of dead wood which turn a reddish-brown color and become quite hard. The blobs are usually 1 to 4 mm in length. Other symptoms include small twigs and branches dying back and branch necrosis. The bark that is infected becomes weak and tends to snap off in windy weather. The pathogen thrives in dead wood and airborne spores infect living trees and shrubs through wounds. Since it is caused by a weak fungus, isolation of the pathogen from diseased tissue and an analysis for fungal properties, such as induced sporulation or microscopically seeing cross-walls in hyphae, can aid in diagnosis. Furthermore, many fungi studies in media involve the formation of concentric hyphal zonations or rings of sporulation as the colony develops. This zonation is usually attributed to environmental changes. The sporulation rhythm of N. cinnabarina is conveyed by concentric rings or spirals and is dependent on temperature.	 sweetgum Tubercularia vulgaris

Significant variation in symptoms is seen between diseases, though some symptoms are expressed across species. On a macroscopic scale, plants infected with a X. fastidiosa-related disease exhibit symptoms of water, zinc, and iron deficiencies, manifesting as leaf scorching and stunting in leaves turning them yellowish-brown, gummy substance around leaves, fruit reduction in size and quality, and overall plant height.  As the bacterium progressively colonizes xylem tissues, affected plants often block off their xylem tissue, which can limit the spread of this pathogen; blocking can occur in the form of polysaccharide-rich gels, tyloses, or both.  These plant defenses do not seem to hinder the movement of X. fastidiosa. Occlusion of vascular tissue, while a normal plant response to infection, makes symptoms significantly worse; as the bacterium itself also reduces vascular function, a 90% reduction of vascular hydraulic function was seen in susceptible Vitis vinifera.  This bacterium rarely completely blocks vascular tissue. There usually is a slight amount of vascular function that keeps the plant alive, but makes its fruit or branches die, making the specific plant economically nonproductive. This can cause a massive drop on supply of quality fruit. Smaller colonies usually occur throughout a high proportion of xylem vessels of a symptomatic plant.X. fastidiosa is a Gram-negative, xylem-limited illness that is spread by insects. It can damage a variety of broadleaved tree species that are commonly grown in the United States. X. Fastidiosa can be found in about 600 different plant species.Withering and desiccation of branchesLeaf chlorosisDwarfing or lack of growth of the plantDrooping appearance and shorter internodesShriveled fruits on infected plantsPremature fruit abscissiongum-like substance on leavehardening and size reduction of fruit	 sweetgum Xylella fastidiosa

Ceratocystis fimbriata is an ascomycete fungal pathogen. The species as a whole can infect a wide variety of hosts, but particular strains are host-specific. One example is the Ipomoea form of the fungus, which is specific to sweet potato (Ipomea batatas) and wild morning glory. Symptoms can be found on the fleshy root or visible in plants. On sweet potato, Ceratocystis fimbriata causes a disease called 'black rot,' which displays firm and dry circular brown/black rots. Infected plants often show stunted growth, wilting, and yellowing. Wilting occurs because this pathogen can also travel through xylem and infect vascular system. During disease, white, fuzzy mycelia with long black perithecia grow out from the lesions. Additionally, research demonstrates that sweet potatoes infected with C. fimbriata demonstrate increased respiration which is partially due to the infection's influence on protein metabolism. Higher respiration rates cause dry weight loss in the tubers which poses a problem for marketability.	 sweetpotato Ceratocystis fimbriata

Colletotrichum coccodes can infect potato, onion, tomato and has a large host range. The disease also infects hosts from the Cucurbitaceae, Fabaceae and Solanaceae families).Colletotrichum coccodes can cause lesions, twisted leaves, and a bleached color on onion.On tomato, can see that there are sunken in dark spots. As the disease continues to develop can begin to see spots that are rotting. The pathogen can infect both green and ripe fruit; spots are not evident on green right away, but over time they develop. (Dillard, 1987).  Symptoms are most common on the fruit, but they may also appear on the stem, leaves, and roots.In potato, C. coccodes is characterized by silvery lesions on the tuber surface which result in a deterioration in skin quality. In addition to causing tuber blemish symptoms, C. coccodes also causes symptoms on stems and foliage, which result in crop losses, and is implicated as a factor in the potato early dying disease complex. In the past the pathogen was not regarded as an issue, but it has become more prevalent.	 sweetpotato Colletotrichum coccodes

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 sweetpotato Diplodia gossypina

In addition to potatoes, potato rot nematodes have a wide range of over 100 species of hosts from numerous families. Some of these include alfalfa, beets, carrots, garlic, hops, mint, parsnips, peanuts, rhubarb, tomatoes, and flowering plants such as irises and tulips.  The nematodes only attack the below ground, non-aerial tissues of plants such as the roots, bulbs, rhizomes, and tubers.The main symptoms of Ditylenchus destructor, common to potatoes and its other hosts, are the rotting and discoloration of subterranean plant tissue.  In potatoes, early infection can be detected by small white spots underneath the potato’s skin.  As the disease progresses, these spots become larger and darker with a spongy or hollow appearance. Tubers develop sunken areas and the skin becomes dry, cracked, and detached from the underlying flesh. There is further discoloration at this stage that is often due to secondary invasions of fungi, bacteria, and free-living nematodes.  Above ground symptoms are usually not seen, although heavily infected plants are often weaker, smaller and can have curled or discolored leaves.Symptoms of Ditylenchus destructor on the bulbs of flowering plants such as irises and tulips are similar to those of potatoes, except infection usually occurs at the bulb’s base and moves upwards.  The fleshy scales develop discolored yellow to black lesions, the roots become blackened, and leaves can develop yellow tips.   Potato rot nematodes in groundnuts, such as peanuts, develop blackened hulls, shrunken kernels, and embryos with a brown discoloration.Potato rot nematodes are identified and diagnosed by various morphological and molecular methods.  The morphological methods are the primary means of diagnosis, with molecular methods being used for when there is a low level of infestation or when only juveniles are present.  Nematodes are extracted from infected plant tissue and examined microscopically for distinguishing characteristics such as body and stylet, and tail morphology.  Molecular methods for identifying Ditylenchus destructor (especially in distinguishing from other Ditylenchus species) include PCRs (polymerase chain reactions) to find restriction patterns of DNA to identify specific species.	 sweetpotato Ditylenchus destructor

D. dipsaci has an extensive host range. Major damage occurs in garlic, onion, carrot, fava bean, alfalfa, oats, and strawberry. Ornamental plants can also be infected including hyacinth and tulip. It is estimated that this pathogen infects 400–500 plant species worldwide.In Allium species (onions, garlic, and leeks), infected plants show characteristic symptoms including stunted growth, yellow spots, leaf curl, and foliage lesions. Stems often have swollen regions called “spikkles.” As adult nematodes migrate into the scales of the bulb, and the scales become soft, grey, and loosely packed. Highly infected bulbs can also split apart or show malformed bloating. The leaves of the plant become flaccid and may collapse. This can lead to defoliated plants. Garlic shows similar symptoms of leaf yellowing and stunted bulbs. When harvested, the infected garlic may be missing portions of the root system.In fava beans (Vicia faba), symptoms of infection include reddish-brown stem lesions that can turn black. Young bean pods are dark-brown. Infected seeds are smaller and distorted compared to healthy beans. Speckles and spots are also commonly seen on infected fava beans.Up to 30 biological races occur within D. dipsaci that are mostly distinguished by their host preferences. Very little morphological differences are seen between the races which makes diagnosis difficult. Seed material samples from infected plants can be dissected and viewed under a microscope to confirm the correct race.	 sweetpotato Ditylenchus dipsaci

D. dadantii is phytopathogenic bacterium causing soft rot diseases on many host plants including some which are economically important. D. dadantii, more commonly known as: soft rot, brown rot or blackleg, causes characteristic symptoms associated with other bacterial wilts, causing final diagnosis to be difficult. The pathogen primarily seeks to attack the plant's xylem vessels located in leaves, stems, blossoms and storage organs of herbaceous plants. D. dadantii is able to infect hosts at any point in its life cycle. In addition to symptoms of wilt, the disease appears as sunken and cracked external lesions also having a brown interior in cross section in subterranean bulbs and tubers Diseased plants will display a variety of symptoms including: wilting, stunting and vascular discoloration of the stems. Early symptoms include water soaked lesions at the site of infection, gradually expanding chlorotic leaves and loss of turgor in tissues. The intensity of D. dadantii colonization relates to the amount of disease and degree of damage. The pathogen is very successful at infiltrating host tissues due to the many pectinases responsible for disassembly of plant cell wall polysaccharides. Once the cell wall is degraded cellular structure collapses and this cell maceration gives a characteristic "water-soaked" or rotted appearance. D. dadantii grow intercellularly, continuing to degrade cells and colonize, until it eventually reaches xylem tissues. Upon reaching the xylem vessels D. dadantii possesses the ability to spread to new regions of the host and other areas may begin to display symptoms. Colonization within the xylem restricts flow of water causing loss of turgor pressure and wilting of foliage and stems. Restricted movement of important plant compounds eventually lead to death of the host.	 sweetpotato Erwinia chrysanthemi

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 sweetpotato Fusarium solani

The most indicative sign is the presence of dark fungal mats on the effected plant’s roots and stem near the soil line, and the presence of mycelium on the soil. H. longisporum is an opportunistic parasite of subterranean plant organs. Symptoms of infection include foliage chlorosis, premature abscission, wilting, and severe reduction of root mass. Infected soil may be identified by the conspicuous nature of the webbed mycelium, which transitions from white to dark violet over the growing season.It is not highly specialized and infects a wide range of hosts, among them including apple (Malus domestica), mulberry (Morus spp.), Grapes (Vitus spp.), Potato (Solanum tuberosum), Plum (Prunus spp.), Tea, beets, soy, and cotton. It is suspected to infect many more hosts and is not selective.	 sweetpotato Helicobasidium mompa

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 sweetpotato Lasiodiplodia theobromae

One of the most harmful seed and soil borne pathogens, Macrophomina phaseolina is a fungus that infects nearly 500 plant species in more than 100 families. The hosts include: peanut, cabbage, pepper, chickpea, soybean, sunflower, sweet potato, alfalfa, sesame, potato, sorghum, wheat, and corn, among others. The identification of isolates of M. phaseolina is usually based on morphology and efforts to divide the pathogen into subspecies, but because there are wide intraspecific variations in the phenotype of the isolates, these criteria are often not reliable. The failure to correctly detect and identify M. phaseolina using conventional culture-based morphological techniques has led scientists to develop nucleic acid-based molecular approaches, such as highly sensitive and specific polymerase chain reaction-based methods. Researchers have also recently created species-specific oligonucleotide primers and digoxigenin-labeled probes in hopes of better identifying and detecting M. phaseolina.The pathogen M. phaseolina affects the fibrovascular system of the roots and basal internodes of its host, impeding the transport of water and nutrients to the upper parts of the plant. As a result, progressive wilting, premature dying, loss of vigor, and reduced yield are characteristic symptoms of M. phaseolina infection. The fungus also causes many diseases like damping off, seedling blight, collar rot, stem rot, charcoal rot, basal stem rot, and root rot. Although brown lesions may form on the hypocotyls or emerging seedlings, many symptoms occur during or after flowering, including grey discoloration of the stem and taproots, shredding of plant tissue in the stem and top of the taproot, and hollowing of the stem. Small black dots may form beneath the epidermis of the lower stem and in the taproot, giving the stems and roots a charcoal-sprinkled appearance. When the epidermis is removed, small and black microsclerotia (a sign of the disease) may be so numerous that they give a greyish-black tint to the plant tissue. In addition, reddish-brown discoloration and black streaks can form in the pith and vascular tissues of the root and stem.	 sweetpotato Macrophomina phaseolina

These nematodes cause symptoms both on leaves and roots. Foliar symptoms of root-knot disease may be expressed at any time during the growing season. These symptoms of nematode damage on peanut plants range from stunting, yellowing, wilting and even plant death.  Ferris (1999–2012), also reported that nematodes cause yellowing; mid-day wilting; symptoms of water and nutrient stress; and sometimes death, especially if the nematode is interacting with other organisms.  They can appear in a peanut crop beginning about 100 days after planting or after periods of dry hot weather.  Areas of root-knot nematode damaged peanut are usually round to oblong in shape, and rows of infected plants may never overlap as those of healthy plants. It is common for plants to wilt and eventually die in areas where nematode populations are high.Root symptoms are similar to those caused by all nematodes including a reduction in number of feeder roots and root stunting, but root knot nematodes cause unique symptoms on roots and pods. Nematodes cause galls (knots) to form on both roots and pods of the peanut, and these galls are highly diagnostic for root-knot nematode presence compared to other nematodes affecting peanut. The presence of galls on roots, pegs and pods appears as single or multiple wart-like growths that may or may not be discolored. As root knot nematode infection progresses, and generally later in the season, secondary root and pod rots cause further damage and eventual death of the plants.Many soil-borne fungi, especially Sclerotium rolfsii (which causes southern stem rot) and Sclerotinia minor (which causes Sclerotinia blight), will infect the weakened peanut plants and cause more plant death. Root knot nematode infection of the peg weakens the peg so that it breaks during harvest, contributing to additional yield losses because the detached pods are then left in the soil. Infection of the pods leads to a decline in yield quality.The damage threshold, or the initial nematode population density at which peanut yields begin to decline, has been reported to be in the range of 1 to 10 eggs and second stage juveniles per 500 cm3 soil for M. arenaria on susceptible peanut cultivars.	 sweetpotato Meloidogyne arenaria

Meloidogyne hapla (Northern root-knot nematode) has a wide host range. It is polyphagous and affects over 550 crops and weeds. It feeds on many agricultural and horticultural plants (vegetables, fruits, ornamentals), but few grasses or cereals. A list of known hosts can be found at the bottom of this page.Symptoms can be seen in the roots, leaves, and the overall growth of the infected plant. In roots, there may be stunting, wilting, and the formation of abnormal growths called galls. Galls are usually small and spherical and are situated near many small roots. They are formed when the nematode enters the root and releases chemicals to enlarge root cells, on which they feed. The roots become defective and therefore cannot transport water and nutrients properly. The end result is stunted, wilted, and yellowing plants (characteristic of nutrient deficiency) and a decreased yield. Severity of the symptoms depends on nematode population density and host plant species and cultivar. As the number of nematodes increase in the area, the number and size of root galls increase as well. Each crop responds to Meloidogyne hapla differently. Carrots typically undergo severe forking with galling of the roots, lettuce have beadlike galls, and grasses and onions have small and barely noticeable galls and symptoms. In potato tubers (special stems), brown spots will appear on areas of the tubers where the females have laid their eggs.If a field has a patchy distribution of symptoms, it usually indicates the presence of nematodes. Most nematodes are not usually distributed uniformly in the soil. To correctly identify Meloidogyne hapla, the infected plant should be sent to a lab for a proper diagnosis. One common method is perineal pattern analysis where the perineum of the female nematode (area between the anus and the vulva) is examined for a specific pattern in ridges and annulations. Another common method is analyzing isozyme (different variations of the same enzyme produced by different genes) electrophoretic profiles using esterase and malate dehydrogenase.	 sweetpotato Meloidogyne hapla

Plants affected by M. incognita present above ground symptoms of water- and nutrient-stress, yellowing, wilting, and stunting. Below ground galling on roots, bulbs, tubers is the typical symptom. Plant death may occur in high infestation level.	 sweetpotato Meloidogyne incognita

Because there are so many different hosts for this pathogen, the symptoms are very variable. Common symptoms include abnormal leaf color, abnormal leaf form, wilting leaves, galls, swollen roots, reduced root system, dwarfing and senescence (Cabi 2018). This pathogen does the most damage when present in light soils with hot weather conditions (Alford 2012).	 sweetpotato Meloidogyne javanica

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 sweetpotato Nectria haematococca

Roots will become infected and at first be light pink, sometimes they can be yellow or a yellow-brownish color. As the disease progresses the roots will become a darker pink then red and lastly turn to purple the advanced stages of this disease. Also in the later stages of this disease roots can become transparent, water soaked, and eventually disintegrate. New roots that form will also become infected, turn pink, and then die. Leaf size and number will be reduced, and bulbing will start early in infected plants compared to non-infected. Seedlings that become infected can be killed. Plants that survive from this disease become stunted and undersized which makes them not marketable. Plants that survive the infection will produce seed with a lowered biomass and germination rate.	 sweetpotato Phoma terrestris

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 sweetpotato Phymatotrichopsis omnivora

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 sweetpotato Phymatotrichum omnivorum

Phytoplasmas can infect and cause various symptoms in more than 700 plant species. One characteristic symptom is abnormal floral organ development including phyllody (i.e., the production of leaf-like structures in place of flowers) and virescence (i.e., the development of green flowers attributable to a loss of pigment by petal cells). Phytoplasma-harboring flowering plants may nevertheless be sterile. The expression of genes involved in maintaining the apical meristem or in the development of floral organs is altered in the morphologically affected floral organs of phytoplasma-infected plants.A phytoplasma infection often triggers leaf yellowing, probably due to the presence of phytoplasma cells in phloem, which can affect phloem function and carbohydrate transport, inhibit chlorophyll biosynthesis, and trigger chlorophyll breakdown. These symptoms may be attributable to stress caused by the infection rather than a specific pathogenetic process.Many phytoplasma-infected plants develop a bushy or "witches' broom" appearance due to changes in their normal growth patterns. Most plants exhibit apical dominance but infection can trigger the proliferation of axillary (side) shoots and a reduction in internode size. Such symptoms are actually useful in the commercial production of poinsettias. Infection triggers more axillary shoot production; the poinsettia plants thus produce more than a single flower.	 sweetpotato Phytoplasma

Roots will become infected and at first be light pink, sometimes they can be yellow or a yellow-brownish color. As the disease progresses the roots will become a darker pink then red and lastly turn to purple the advanced stages of this disease. Also in the later stages of this disease roots can become transparent, water soaked, and eventually disintegrate. New roots that form will also become infected, turn pink, and then die. Leaf size and number will be reduced, and bulbing will start early in infected plants compared to non-infected. Seedlings that become infected can be killed. Plants that survive from this disease become stunted and undersized which makes them not marketable. Plants that survive the infection will produce seed with a lowered biomass and germination rate.	 sweetpotato Pyrenochaeta terrestris

Radopholus similis parasites can be found in tropical climates, and therefore infect a lot of plants native to tropical areas. Common hosts that are economically important include: banana, coconut, coffee, ginger, sugarcane, ornamentals, and tea. Although R. similis has not been found to infect citrus plants, it is closely related to another variety of burrowing nematodes, Radopholus citrophilus, that is a prominent pathogen to citrus plants. As with a plethora of root diseases, the main symptoms of an infection from burrowing nematodes are stunted growth, rotting roots, and necrotic roots. They are migratory endoparasites, and therefore can cause many localized necrotic patches throughout an infected root system. R. similis signs are generally only seen in the roots, but secondary symptoms such as wilting, weakened structure, and stunting can be caused by the root damage these parasites inflict. In fact, infection via these parasites is referred to as “banana toppling disease” in bananas because the plants often topple due to severe root damage by these nematodes. Prominent symptoms can also vary by host. Black pepper plants often undergo yellowing due to lack of nutrient uptake, ginger plants often become stunted and develop lesions, and tea plants also exhibit stunting and leaf loss.	 sweetpotato Radopholus similis

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 sweetpotato Rhizoctonia solani

Symptoms of R. stolonifer infection of sweet potatoes include rapid development of a watery soft rot of the internal portion of the storage root with the periderm generally remaining intact.  Infection can occur anywhere on the root but usually initiates at the ends due to the inevitable wounding resulting from harvest, or because a root's tapered ends are more likely to be injured. A milder infection of R. stolonifer occurring away from the ends results in ring rot or collar rot, in which the pathogen typically only causes rotting in a portion of the root. This rotting forms a relatively superficial dry ring around the root.  Rhizopus soft rot produces a characteristic fermentation odor.  Roots may dry and mummify with only the periderm and root fibers remaining intact because of the inability of the fungus to break down the lignin in these components.  Characteristic signs of Rhizopus soft rot include the production of tufts of white hyphae which break through the surface of the root and produce large numbers of brown-black sporangiophores (34 µm diam. by 1000-3500 µm length) which support a sporangium (100-350 µm diam.).  Sporangiospores (4-11 µm diam) are produced in the sporangium and are unicellular, ovoid and brown.  Sporangiospores serve as the primary inoculum and are passively released when the outer layer of the sporangium breaks down.  Other R. stolonifer structures include stolons and rhizoids.  Stolons arch over the surface and rhizoids grow into the substrate at each point of contact between stolon and substrate.Sexual recombination is rare and occurs when mycelium of two compatible strains come in contact.  Progametangia from each strain grow towards each other and fuse into gametangia, forming a thick-walled zygospore.  Zygospores germinate to form sporangiophores bearing a single sporangium.R. stolonifer is incapable of breaching the intact root periderm and requires a wound to initiate infection.  The type of wound influences infectivity, with smooth wounds less likely to be infected than impact bruise/crushed tissue wounds. It has been suggested that smooth wounds (slices or scrapes) lack the quantity of nutrients required for spore germ tube formation.  No research has been completed to identify the degree of impact bruising required for infection to be initiated.	 sweetpotato Rhizopus soft rot

The effects of SPFMV are dependent upon species of sweet potato as well as strain of virus, and can vary between geographical locations. Many infections are localized, mild, and often asymptomatic, and can go untreated without causing significant damage to the plant. The most common symptom of SPFMV is a feathery, purple pattern in the leaves. However, more virulent strains such as the russet crack strain (RC) have been known to cause root necrosis and leaf chlorosis, and some strains have been shown to cause root discoloration. However, due to SPFMV's significant contribution to sweet potato viral disease, many studies are directed toward creating immunity to SPFMV in susceptible plants. One such method is the creation of transgene plants using proteins such as cysteine proteinase inhibitors, which would inhibit viral polyprotein cleavage.	 sweetpotato Sweet potato feathery mottle virus

The primary symptom of SPLCV includes upward leaf curling. This is primarily seen in young  plants with SPLCV. As plants mature, it is common for visual symptoms to dissipate. Additional symptoms of SPLCV include seedling twisting, deformation of floral tissues, and reduction of pollen fertility and seed number. A common method for analyzing symptoms is through the use of PCR (Polymerase chain reaction).Another symptom is stunted development of the anther and pollen. A C4 protein related to the SPLCV interacts with brassinosteroid-intensive 2 (ABtBIN2) in the plasma membrane of host cells. This results in the C4 protein re-localizing AtBIN2-interacting proteins in the nucleus of the host cell, altering the expression of brassinosteriod (BR)-genes to cause the activation of BR-signaling pathway. This causes the down-regulated expression of key genes that are necessary to the development of the anther and pollen.SPLCV is most common in sweet potatoes, but symptoms have also been observed in blue morning glory (Ipomoea indica).	 sweetpotato Sweet potato leaf curl virus

Sweet Potato Mild Mottle Virus (or SPMMV) has a large host range. This is uncommon for potyviruses, making SPMMV a divergent species of potyviruses. SPMMV hosts include 45 different species in 14 different plant families. The naturally occurring host, and namesake for the virus is Ipomoea batatas (sweet potato). Even though SPMMV is found naturally in sweet potato, scientists have been able to experimentally transmit the virus to different species including beets, sowbane, devil’s snare, makhmali, tomato, tobacco, petunia, and zinna.Some common symptoms seen in SPMMV hosts include mild leaf mottling, which is characterized by irregular patterns of marks, patches, spots, and streaks of different colors on host leaves. Also, stunting and dwarfing of the plant is common. Some hosts even have venial chlorosis. Overall, plant growth is very poor in hosts with SPMMV.	 sweetpotato Sweet potato mild mottle virus

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 sweetpotato Thanatephorus cucumeris

The symptoms that plants exhibit in response to the pathogenicity of Xiphinema americanum are similar to those of other migratory ectoparasitic nematodes of roots. It is common to see poor growth and or stunting of the plant, yellowing or wilting of the foliage, and reduced root systems which can include root necrosis, lack of feeder or secondary roots, and occasional tufts of stubby rootlets.Young, shortleaved yellow pine trees with moderate swelling of roots with clusters of short, stubby branches were the first demonstration of X. americanum pathogenicity in 1955. X. americanum can also cause severe effects on foliage, sometimes causing chlorosis and complete defoliation as seen on Guatemalan coffee trees. The dagger nematode causes the devitalization of root tips and overall root death when they feed at the root tips and root sides of strawberry plants. Reddish-brown lesions that turn black and necrotic with time result at the sites of feeding, and result in reduced root systems and stunted tops.Xiphinema americanum is listed as a C-rated pest in California due to its wide host range of California crops. C-rated pests are widespread, and are of known economic or environmental detriment, according to The California Department of Food and Agriculture. Due to X. americanum's difficulty in maintaining high populations in frequently tilled soils (see Control), the dagger nematode is mainly an economic problem on biennial and perennial crops rather than annual crops (except for damage to emerging seedlings).	 sweetpotato Xiphinema americanum

Armillaria mellea typically infects hardwood trees and conifers but sometimes will infect non-woody monocots and a few herbaceous plants. There are few signs, and the ones that do exist are often hard to find. The most prominent sign is honey-colored mushrooms at the base of the infected plant. Additional signs include white, fan-shaped mycelia and black rhizomorphs with diameters between 1/32nd of an inch and 1/8th of an inch. These usually are not as noticeable because they occur beneath the bark and in the soil, respectively. The symptoms are much more numerous, including slower growth, dieback of branches, yellowing foliage, rotted wood at base and/or roots, external cankers, cracking bark, bleeding stem, leaf wilting, defoliation, and rapid death. Leaf wilting, defoliation, and dieback occur after the destruction of the cambium.	 sycamore Armillaria mellea

An irregular browning leaf margin which may or may not be bordered by a pale halo.Symptoms re-occur every year, spreading throughout the tree crown, eventually killing the host plant.	 sycamore Bacterial leaf scorch

Black rotBotryosphaeria obtusa enters the fruit through wounds. These can be made by insects, birds or growth cracks. At first a brown spot, near the calyx, appears on the fruit. The spot on the fruit then enlarges and black/brown rings appear on the fruit. The fruit holds its shape, however, unlike other fruit diseases. The fruit will then wither up and can remain on the tree for another year before falling off. During this time pycnidia appear on the surface of the rotted fruit.Frogeye leaf spotIn leaves the fungus begins by causing purple specks on infected leaves. These then enlarge to cause large spots on the leaf, developing a brown color. The spots appear to have rings of brown with a purple margin, thus giving it its frogeye appearance. The spots can then produce pycnidia which can separate this species of fungus from other possible leaf fungi.CankerOn twigs, branches and trunks B. obtusa can infect where there has been a winter injury or fire blight cankers. Slightly sunken reddish/brown spots appear on the infected areas of bark. These then enlarge to form cankers, which can then enlarge slightly more each year. The bark usually dies and can, after time, be pulled away from the tree. In older cankers the pycnidia appear on the bark.Black dead arm disease of grapevineBotryosphaeria obtusa is the pathogen of black dead arm disease of grapevine. It has been shown to be able to oxidise wood δ-resveratrol into delta-viniferin.	 sycamore Botryosphaeria obtusa

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 sycamore Botryosphaeria rhodina

Ceratocystis fimbriata is an ascomycete fungal pathogen. The species as a whole can infect a wide variety of hosts, but particular strains are host-specific. One example is the Ipomoea form of the fungus, which is specific to sweet potato (Ipomea batatas) and wild morning glory. Symptoms can be found on the fleshy root or visible in plants. On sweet potato, Ceratocystis fimbriata causes a disease called 'black rot,' which displays firm and dry circular brown/black rots. Infected plants often show stunted growth, wilting, and yellowing. Wilting occurs because this pathogen can also travel through xylem and infect vascular system. During disease, white, fuzzy mycelia with long black perithecia grow out from the lesions. Additionally, research demonstrates that sweet potatoes infected with C. fimbriata demonstrate increased respiration which is partially due to the infection's influence on protein metabolism. Higher respiration rates cause dry weight loss in the tubers which poses a problem for marketability.	 sycamore Ceratocystis fimbriata

Ceratocystis fimbriata is an ascomycete fungal pathogen. The species as a whole can infect a wide variety of hosts, but particular strains are host-specific. One example is the Ipomoea form of the fungus, which is specific to sweet potato (Ipomea batatas) and wild morning glory. Symptoms can be found on the fleshy root or visible in plants. On sweet potato, Ceratocystis fimbriata causes a disease called 'black rot,' which displays firm and dry circular brown/black rots. Infected plants often show stunted growth, wilting, and yellowing. Wilting occurs because this pathogen can also travel through xylem and infect vascular system. During disease, white, fuzzy mycelia with long black perithecia grow out from the lesions. Additionally, research demonstrates that sweet potatoes infected with C. fimbriata demonstrate increased respiration which is partially due to the infection's influence on protein metabolism. Higher respiration rates cause dry weight loss in the tubers which poses a problem for marketability.	 sycamore Ceratostomella fimbriata

Eutypella canker infects many species of maple trees, most prevalently the sugar maple (Acer saccharum). Others commonly affected are the red maple (Acer rubrum), box elder (Acer negundo), striped maple (Acer pensylvanicum), Norway maple (Acer platanoides), sycamore maple (Acer pseudoplatanus), silver maple (Acer saccharinum), and black maple (Acer nigrum). Onset usually occurs with greater probability of younger maples since they are more susceptible.Symptoms are similar to all species of maple and include a canker forming most commonly 2–12 feet (0.61–3.66 m) from the ground. The formation of the canker begins with a small pronounced necrosis of the bark and requires several years to expand. The canker enlarges as the tree ages by increasing its width and forming ringed callus around it. It is then capable of surrounding over half the trunk with a typical diameter of 0.3–2.5 m (1 ft 0 in – 8 ft 2 in). Although the canker can become quite large, it normally does not kill the tree but does increase the risk of the trunk failing and being blown over by the wind. As for visible signs of the fungus, if the bark is peeled back at the center of the canker, a mat of white mycelium (fungal tissue) will be revealed.	 sycamore Eutypella parasitica

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 sycamore Phanerochaete omnivora

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 sycamore Phymatotrichopsis omnivora

Phymatotrichopsis omnivora is a necrotic fungal pathogen that has a very broad host range, attacking almost 2000 dicotyledonous species. It inhabits alkaline, calcareous soils in southwestern United States. It particularly targets dicots as most monocots are immune. Economically important plant hosts affected by the pathogen include: peanuts, cotton, alfalfa, apple, pecans, and ornamental trees.First symptoms of disease is often chlorosis of the leaves then followed by browning and wilting. Two weeks of the first symptoms appear, the plant dies. In the field, infected cotton plants exhibit wilting in the mid to late summer form large circular patches and later die. Upon closer examination, the host plant's vascular system show extensive discoloration. Beneath the soil surface, other  observable signs are present. Distinctive cruciform branched hyphae develop on infected root tissue which are observable with compound microscope (Figure 1). In addition, taproots of the infect plant are covered in mycelial strands.   Another macroscopic sign are tan and white spore mats developed on the soil surface near the infected plants during favorable high moisture environmental conditions. Despite the name, these spore mats are not known to aid in dispersal. Although presence of the conidial phase on the spore mats is known, the function of the conidia remains unknown since conidial germination is rarely observed	 sycamore Phymatotrichum omnivorum

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 sycamore Physalospora rhodina

The host range for Phytophythora cinnamomi is very broad. It is distributed worldwide and causes disease on hundreds of hosts. The disease affects a range of economic groups, including food crops such as avocado and pineapple as well as trees and woody ornamentals such as Fraser firs, shortleaf pines, loblolly pines, azaleas, camellia, boxwood, causing root rot and dieback. It is a root pathogen that causes root rot and death of host plants. Some symptoms include: wilting, decreased fruit size, decrease in yield, collar rot, gum exudation, necrosis, leaf chlorosis, leaf curl, and stem cankers. Another symptom is that it can cause dieback of young shoots and may interfere with transpiration of roots to shoots. Older plants may not exhibit symptoms or may display only mild dieback despite having severe root rot.	 sycamore Phytophthora cinnamomi

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 sycamore Rhizoctonia solani

The symptoms that plants exhibit in response to the pathogenicity of Xiphinema americanum are similar to those of other migratory ectoparasitic nematodes of roots. It is common to see poor growth and or stunting of the plant, yellowing or wilting of the foliage, and reduced root systems which can include root necrosis, lack of feeder or secondary roots, and occasional tufts of stubby rootlets.Young, shortleaved yellow pine trees with moderate swelling of roots with clusters of short, stubby branches were the first demonstration of X. americanum pathogenicity in 1955. X. americanum can also cause severe effects on foliage, sometimes causing chlorosis and complete defoliation as seen on Guatemalan coffee trees. The dagger nematode causes the devitalization of root tips and overall root death when they feed at the root tips and root sides of strawberry plants. Reddish-brown lesions that turn black and necrotic with time result at the sites of feeding, and result in reduced root systems and stunted tops.Xiphinema americanum is listed as a C-rated pest in California due to its wide host range of California crops. C-rated pests are widespread, and are of known economic or environmental detriment, according to The California Department of Food and Agriculture. Due to X. americanum's difficulty in maintaining high populations in frequently tilled soils (see Control), the dagger nematode is mainly an economic problem on biennial and perennial crops rather than annual crops (except for damage to emerging seedlings).	 sycamore Xiphinema americanum

Significant variation in symptoms is seen between diseases, though some symptoms are expressed across species. On a macroscopic scale, plants infected with a X. fastidiosa-related disease exhibit symptoms of water, zinc, and iron deficiencies, manifesting as leaf scorching and stunting in leaves turning them yellowish-brown, gummy substance around leaves, fruit reduction in size and quality, and overall plant height.  As the bacterium progressively colonizes xylem tissues, affected plants often block off their xylem tissue, which can limit the spread of this pathogen; blocking can occur in the form of polysaccharide-rich gels, tyloses, or both.  These plant defenses do not seem to hinder the movement of X. fastidiosa. Occlusion of vascular tissue, while a normal plant response to infection, makes symptoms significantly worse; as the bacterium itself also reduces vascular function, a 90% reduction of vascular hydraulic function was seen in susceptible Vitis vinifera.  This bacterium rarely completely blocks vascular tissue. There usually is a slight amount of vascular function that keeps the plant alive, but makes its fruit or branches die, making the specific plant economically nonproductive. This can cause a massive drop on supply of quality fruit. Smaller colonies usually occur throughout a high proportion of xylem vessels of a symptomatic plant.X. fastidiosa is a Gram-negative, xylem-limited illness that is spread by insects. It can damage a variety of broadleaved tree species that are commonly grown in the United States. X. Fastidiosa can be found in about 600 different plant species.Withering and desiccation of branchesLeaf chlorosisDwarfing or lack of growth of the plantDrooping appearance and shorter internodesShriveled fruits on infected plantsPremature fruit abscissiongum-like substance on leavehardening and size reduction of fruit	 sycamore Xylella fastidiosa

Armillaria root rot is a disease that affects a wide variety of trees and is caused by multiple species in the Armillaria species complex. Armillaria spp. is a basidiomycete fungi. The symptoms for Armillaria spp. can vary greatly because of the wide host range and different species of pathogen. The hosts of Armillaria fuscipes specifically are tropical members of the genus Pinus, Camellia sinensis (tea), and members of the genus Coffea. General symptoms of A. fuscipes, include stunting of the plant, sparse foliage and chlorosis of the leaves. For hosts in the Pinus genus, such as Pinus elliottii, P. kesiya, P. patula, P. taeda, chlorosis of the needles of the infected plant is also a common symptom. Signs of this pathogen are white fans of hyphae that grow between the bark and wood of infected trees as well as the  black mycelial cord or rhizomorph of the fungi growing in a net around the root system. The mycelium of A. fuscipes are bioluminescent and the rhizomorph is used to transfer nutrients over large distances to create fruiting bodies as well as infect other trees. The fruiting bodies are brown and white mushrooms that emerge from the base of the tree. The cracking of bark and resin leaking from the base of the tree are other symptoms seen mostly in the Pinus hosts. 	 tea Armillaria fuscipes

Armillaria mellea typically infects hardwood trees and conifers but sometimes will infect non-woody monocots and a few herbaceous plants. There are few signs, and the ones that do exist are often hard to find. The most prominent sign is honey-colored mushrooms at the base of the infected plant. Additional signs include white, fan-shaped mycelia and black rhizomorphs with diameters between 1/32nd of an inch and 1/8th of an inch. These usually are not as noticeable because they occur beneath the bark and in the soil, respectively. The symptoms are much more numerous, including slower growth, dieback of branches, yellowing foliage, rotted wood at base and/or roots, external cankers, cracking bark, bleeding stem, leaf wilting, defoliation, and rapid death. Leaf wilting, defoliation, and dieback occur after the destruction of the cambium.	 tea Armillaria mellea

Armillaria mellea typically infects hardwood trees and conifers but sometimes will infect non-woody monocots and a few herbaceous plants. There are few signs, and the ones that do exist are often hard to find. The most prominent sign is honey-colored mushrooms at the base of the infected plant. Additional signs include white, fan-shaped mycelia and black rhizomorphs with diameters between 1/32nd of an inch and 1/8th of an inch. These usually are not as noticeable because they occur beneath the bark and in the soil, respectively. The symptoms are much more numerous, including slower growth, dieback of branches, yellowing foliage, rotted wood at base and/or roots, external cankers, cracking bark, bleeding stem, leaf wilting, defoliation, and rapid death. Leaf wilting, defoliation, and dieback occur after the destruction of the cambium.	 tea Armillariella mellea

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 tea Botryodiplodia theobromae

Red rust is not exclusive to tea, and is known to infect other plants, including mango, coffee, citrus, and guava. It should not be confused with either the fungal coffee leaf rust, a basidiomycete rust; or with coffee red leaf spot, caused by the related C. virescens. Similar symptoms and pathogenesis seem to be present on all hosts.  The algae can penetrate the epidermis, although spores more readily spread through wounds.  It proceeds to invade the cortical tissue in the stem. In leaves, the rust causes chlorosis and variegation, which might be surrounded by anthocyanescence. One sign of an infection is red-orange filamentous growth emerging on wounds in humid conditions. The most extreme symptoms produce necrotic patches on the stem. Repeated infection cycles result in permanently reduced yields mortality, especially in younger plants.	 tea Cephaleuros parasiticus

Cephaleuros virescens is known to have a broad host range, the widest host range of the species. It has been recorded on 287 plant species and cultivars on the U.S. Gulf coast alone. Common hosts of the plant include tropical trees and shrubs, with the following being the more common or economically important; tea, kava, pepper, para rubber, magnolia, coffee, holly, Indian hawthorn, oil palm, avocado, vanilla, mango, breadfruit, guava, coconut, cashews, cacao, citrus, etc.Most commonly Cephaleuros virescens is identified by the leaf spots it causes. Theses leaf spots are an orange-brown rust in color and usually occur entirely on the upper leaf surface, although leaf spots on the undersides of infected leaves have been reported. The spots are fuzzy in texture and approximately 2 cm (0.8 in) in diameter. In some cases, commonly in more susceptible hosts, stem and fruit spots can occur as a result of infection as well. These leaf spots cause a reduction in plant photosynthetic surface area. While usually harmless, severe causes of these leaf spots can lead to defoliation, twig dieback, tissue necrosis, and loss of marketable fruit.	 tea Cephaleuros virescens

Fungi are capable of showing different interactions with their host and different lifestyles depending upon the interaction. Different species of Cochliobolus and its anamorphs are associated with different host species as ephiphytes, endophytes, saprophytes and pathogens. Infected seed is the major source of inoculum of C. carbonum internationally, so it is a quarantined pathogen in Europe and other countries. To my knowledge, few studies have been conducted to better understand the life and infection cycle of C. carbonum. Cochliobolus carbonum survives as mycelium and resistant chlamydospores on maize debris in the field and on infected seed. Conidia serve as a primary source of inoculum dispersed by wind and rain-splash. Damp weather and moderate temperature greatly favor sporulation and produce additional inoculum for secondary spread. During both pathogenic and saprophytic phases of the lifecycle, this fungus enters and ramifies through intact leaves and obtains nutrients from the host cytoplasm and walls by degrading cell wall components through the production of a variety of extracellular enzymes. The symptoms first appear as small, circular to oval, reddish brown to tan lesions and over time become more tan to grayish. In general, moderate temperature, high relative humidity, and heavy dew during the growing season favors the development of this disease. Senescent corn leaves are an important plant part for the growth and development of C. carbonum, because it provides biochemicals required for the formation of perithecia, asci and ascospores.	 tea Cochliobolus carbonum

Colletotrichum acutatum has a broad host range, but is most important in strawberries. C.  acutatum on strawberries. The pathogen causes black spot of fruit, but can also be seen attacking the plant at its crowns, roots and leaves. After planting, stunting and yellowing as well as wilting may occur. General symptoms of the disease in other plants can also be seen on flowers, petioles, and roots.  Stems are also a prominent place to see symptoms. Lesions on the stem can appear dark colored, oval shaped, and possibly have immersed spots located on petioles and runners.  Once C.acutatum infects these parts of the plant, it can cause other diseases to unfold such as crown root rot, defoliation, bloom blight and fruit rot. Unfortunately, the most significant loss can be seen once the fruit is attacked. If the fruit is infected it will develop small brown spots (green fruit) or black spots (red fruit) and can expand throughout the fruits’ surface.	 tea Colletotrichum acutatum

Colletotrichum coccodes can infect potato, onion, tomato and has a large host range. The disease also infects hosts from the Cucurbitaceae, Fabaceae and Solanaceae families).Colletotrichum coccodes can cause lesions, twisted leaves, and a bleached color on onion.On tomato, can see that there are sunken in dark spots. As the disease continues to develop can begin to see spots that are rotting. The pathogen can infect both green and ripe fruit; spots are not evident on green right away, but over time they develop. (Dillard, 1987).  Symptoms are most common on the fruit, but they may also appear on the stem, leaves, and roots.In potato, C. coccodes is characterized by silvery lesions on the tuber surface which result in a deterioration in skin quality. In addition to causing tuber blemish symptoms, C. coccodes also causes symptoms on stems and foliage, which result in crop losses, and is implicated as a factor in the potato early dying disease complex. In the past the pathogen was not regarded as an issue, but it has become more prevalent.	 tea Colletotrichum camelliae

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 tea Colletotrichum gloeosporioides

Erythricium salmonicolor has a very broad host range. The host plants of greatest importance include rubber, tea, coffee, cacao, grapefruit, orange, nutmeg, mango, apple, coca, and kola. Pink Disease can cause heavy losses including individual branch death to the loss of the whole tree in cases where the main stem or several branches are affected. E. salmonicolor causes girdling cankers which prevent the normal function of some physiological processes, eventually leading to defoliation and die-back of outer branches. On rubber trees, initial stages of infection appear as drops of latex and silky-white mycelial growth on the bark surface. In black pepper plants, sterile pink to white pustules approximately 1 mm in diameter appear on young green stems. In citrus trees, sterile pustules may appear first, and in some cases the trees may have oozing sap or gum. In cacao trees, first symptoms of infection usually present as a sparse white mycelium on the bark surface, which can be easily overlooked. Trees are most susceptible in areas with high levels of rainfall, such as tropical rainforests. Diagnosis of Pink Disease is typically achieved through the use of light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy to observe sporulation of the pathogen.	 tea Corticium salmonicolor

Exobasidium vexans is an obligate pathogen of Camellia sinensis, causing a disease commonly known as Tea Blister Blight. Blister is the any several disease caused by leaf curl fungi of genus . It thrives in tea growing regions of Asia with elevations over 700 m and high relative humidity. E. vexans prefers to attack the young leaves on the lower half of hosts and presents as small yellow translucent leaf spots which progress to lesions. These lesions give the lower surface of the leaf the characteristic blister like appearance. Spores are wind dispersed and readily germinate, usually within 24 hours. E. vexans can enter the host plant via the stomata or direct penetration with an appressoria and growth proliferates intracellularly. E. vexans is the most economically significant tea pathogen in many countries, causing up to 50% crop yield loss when uncontrolled. (Mur et al. 2015, Ajay et al. 2009) Tea Blister Blight infection affects the production of multiple metabolites within the plant, including the reduction of alkaloid caffeine, which has a key role in plant defense. (Mur et al. 2015)	 tea Exobasidium vexans

F. solani is a very generalistic fungal specie and has been known to infect peas, beans, potatoes, and many types of cucurbits. There has been increasing evidence that F. solani  can also act as a causal agent of mycoses in humans. F. solani can also cause damping off, corn rot, and root rot, as well as sudden death of soybeans(SDS). Symptoms include general plant decline, wilting, and large necrotic spots on tap roots. Recently the pathogen has also done serious damage to olive trees throughout the mediterranean. F. solani has been and remains a serious economic disease in North and South America.	 tea Fusarium solani

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 tea Glomerella cingulata

L. theobromae causes diseases such as dieback, blights, and root rot in a variety of different hosts in tropical and subtropical regions. These include guava, coconut, papaya, and grapevine. Botryosphaeria dieback, which is formerly known as bot canker, is characterised by a range of symptoms that affect grapevine in particular. These symptoms affect different areas on the plant and can be used to diagnose this disease along with other factors. In the trunk and cordon of the plant symptoms include cankers coming out of the wounds, wedge shaped lesions when cut in cross sections and dieback. Dieback is characterized as a ‘dead arm’ and a loss of spur positions. More symptoms include stunted shoots in the spring, delay or lack of growth in the spur positions of the bud burst, bleached canes and necrotic buds. Bud necrosis, bud failure, and the dieback of arms are all a result of the necrosis of the hosts vascular system.It can also affect the fruit of durians such as Durio graveolens.	 tea Lasiodiplodia theobromae

These nematodes cause symptoms both on leaves and roots. Foliar symptoms of root-knot disease may be expressed at any time during the growing season. These symptoms of nematode damage on peanut plants range from stunting, yellowing, wilting and even plant death.  Ferris (1999–2012), also reported that nematodes cause yellowing; mid-day wilting; symptoms of water and nutrient stress; and sometimes death, especially if the nematode is interacting with other organisms.  They can appear in a peanut crop beginning about 100 days after planting or after periods of dry hot weather.  Areas of root-knot nematode damaged peanut are usually round to oblong in shape, and rows of infected plants may never overlap as those of healthy plants. It is common for plants to wilt and eventually die in areas where nematode populations are high.Root symptoms are similar to those caused by all nematodes including a reduction in number of feeder roots and root stunting, but root knot nematodes cause unique symptoms on roots and pods. Nematodes cause galls (knots) to form on both roots and pods of the peanut, and these galls are highly diagnostic for root-knot nematode presence compared to other nematodes affecting peanut. The presence of galls on roots, pegs and pods appears as single or multiple wart-like growths that may or may not be discolored. As root knot nematode infection progresses, and generally later in the season, secondary root and pod rots cause further damage and eventual death of the plants.Many soil-borne fungi, especially Sclerotium rolfsii (which causes southern stem rot) and Sclerotinia minor (which causes Sclerotinia blight), will infect the weakened peanut plants and cause more plant death. Root knot nematode infection of the peg weakens the peg so that it breaks during harvest, contributing to additional yield losses because the detached pods are then left in the soil. Infection of the pods leads to a decline in yield quality.The damage threshold, or the initial nematode population density at which peanut yields begin to decline, has been reported to be in the range of 1 to 10 eggs and second stage juveniles per 500 cm3 soil for M. arenaria on susceptible peanut cultivars.	 tea Meloidogyne arenaria

Above-ground symptoms on tea are pale, dull leaves or abnormal leaf fall. Infestations are more apparent in bushes recovering from pruning. Severely attacked bushes may fail to recover. The infected roots have large, characteristic galls, many of which have pinhole pits.	 tea Meloidogyne brevicauda

Meloidogyne hapla (Northern root-knot nematode) has a wide host range. It is polyphagous and affects over 550 crops and weeds. It feeds on many agricultural and horticultural plants (vegetables, fruits, ornamentals), but few grasses or cereals. A list of known hosts can be found at the bottom of this page.Symptoms can be seen in the roots, leaves, and the overall growth of the infected plant. In roots, there may be stunting, wilting, and the formation of abnormal growths called galls. Galls are usually small and spherical and are situated near many small roots. They are formed when the nematode enters the root and releases chemicals to enlarge root cells, on which they feed. The roots become defective and therefore cannot transport water and nutrients properly. The end result is stunted, wilted, and yellowing plants (characteristic of nutrient deficiency) and a decreased yield. Severity of the symptoms depends on nematode population density and host plant species and cultivar. As the number of nematodes increase in the area, the number and size of root galls increase as well. Each crop responds to Meloidogyne hapla differently. Carrots typically undergo severe forking with galling of the roots, lettuce have beadlike galls, and grasses and onions have small and barely noticeable galls and symptoms. In potato tubers (special stems), brown spots will appear on areas of the tubers where the females have laid their eggs.If a field has a patchy distribution of symptoms, it usually indicates the presence of nematodes. Most nematodes are not usually distributed uniformly in the soil. To correctly identify Meloidogyne hapla, the infected plant should be sent to a lab for a proper diagnosis. One common method is perineal pattern analysis where the perineum of the female nematode (area between the anus and the vulva) is examined for a specific pattern in ridges and annulations. Another common method is analyzing isozyme (different variations of the same enzyme produced by different genes) electrophoretic profiles using esterase and malate dehydrogenase.	 tea Meloidogyne hapla

Plants affected by M. incognita present above ground symptoms of water- and nutrient-stress, yellowing, wilting, and stunting. Below ground galling on roots, bulbs, tubers is the typical symptom. Plant death may occur in high infestation level.	 tea Meloidogyne incognita

Because there are so many different hosts for this pathogen, the symptoms are very variable. Common symptoms include abnormal leaf color, abnormal leaf form, wilting leaves, galls, swollen roots, reduced root system, dwarfing and senescence (Cabi 2018). This pathogen does the most damage when present in light soils with hot weather conditions (Alford 2012).	 tea Meloidogyne javanica

Nectria cinnabarina, also known as coral spot, is a weak pathogen of broadleaf trees. While beech is the main host, the parasite can also affect Sycamore, Horse Chestnut, and Hornbeam. This pathogen usually affects trees that have already been weakened as a result of stressful factors, such as drought or fungal infestation. Physical damage can also make the tree susceptible to the pathogen. The pathogen forms pink fungal blobs (indicative of its sexual stage) on the outside of dead wood which turn a reddish-brown color and become quite hard. The blobs are usually 1 to 4 mm in length. Other symptoms include small twigs and branches dying back and branch necrosis. The bark that is infected becomes weak and tends to snap off in windy weather. The pathogen thrives in dead wood and airborne spores infect living trees and shrubs through wounds. Since it is caused by a weak fungus, isolation of the pathogen from diseased tissue and an analysis for fungal properties, such as induced sporulation or microscopically seeing cross-walls in hyphae, can aid in diagnosis. Furthermore, many fungi studies in media involve the formation of concentric hyphal zonations or rings of sporulation as the colony develops. This zonation is usually attributed to environmental changes. The sporulation rhythm of N. cinnabarina is conveyed by concentric rings or spirals and is dependent on temperature.	 tea Nectria cinnabarina

Radopholus similis parasites can be found in tropical climates, and therefore infect a lot of plants native to tropical areas. Common hosts that are economically important include: banana, coconut, coffee, ginger, sugarcane, ornamentals, and tea. Although R. similis has not been found to infect citrus plants, it is closely related to another variety of burrowing nematodes, Radopholus citrophilus, that is a prominent pathogen to citrus plants. As with a plethora of root diseases, the main symptoms of an infection from burrowing nematodes are stunted growth, rotting roots, and necrotic roots. They are migratory endoparasites, and therefore can cause many localized necrotic patches throughout an infected root system. R. similis signs are generally only seen in the roots, but secondary symptoms such as wilting, weakened structure, and stunting can be caused by the root damage these parasites inflict. In fact, infection via these parasites is referred to as “banana toppling disease” in bananas because the plants often topple due to severe root damage by these nematodes. Prominent symptoms can also vary by host. Black pepper plants often undergo yellowing due to lack of nutrient uptake, ginger plants often become stunted and develop lesions, and tea plants also exhibit stunting and leaf loss.	 tea Radopholus similis

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 tea Rhizoctonia solani

Rosellinia bunodes is a facultative soil saprophyte capable of infecting a wide range of hosts, including native forest species and important agricultural crops like tea, citrus, coffee, yam, fig, rubber, cassava, banana, avocado, pepper, potato, cocoa, ginger, daffodils, yerba mate and poplar. New reports of susceptible hosts are also still occasionally reported. Outbreaks of black root rot in agricultural systems and the wild often occur in circular patches. Despite the pathogen's wide host range, disease signs and symptoms typically present in the same manner regardless of host species. Symptoms and disease progression have been likened to those caused by Phytophthora spp. and Armillaria spp.Importantly, R. bunodes is capable of infecting hosts at any age or developmental stage, from young seedlings to mature trees, and shows rapid root colonization abilities on susceptible hosts. The earliest symptoms are visible just seven days after inoculation in vitro as brown lesions on roots that progressively darken to black. Dark discoloration of vascular bundles is visible shortly thereafter.Once inside the vascular tissue, R. bunodes compromises xylem flow and transport of nutrients to aerial parts of the host resulting in chlorosis, wilting, dry die-back, leaf drop, and eventually host death. In controlled laboratory experiments, vegetative symptoms like chlorosis and wilting in two-year-old poplar (Populus deltoides) saplings were observed 14 days after inoculation, and field observations describe death of mature trees within 3–4 years. In 6-month-old coffee seedlings, 98% died within 10 days of inoculation with R. bunodes.Early signs of R. bunodes colonization include white, cottony growth on roots that also progressively darken with age. As mycelia grow, they form dense mats over roots and at the base of tree trunks that thicken into irregular knots and aggregate into rhizomorphs. Over time mycelia darken to form black, branching strands firmly attached to host roots; occasionally black dots are visible before this color change, indicating production of asexual and sexual survival structures. Darkened, mature hyphae can also develop and function as microsclerotia, however germination of microsclerotia has never been achieved in a laboratory setting nor observed in nature.	 tea Rosellinia bunodes

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 tea Thanatephorus cucumeris

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 tobacco Alternaria alternata

A. ritezmabosi has a wide host range of almost 200 plant species, and is an important disease in chrysanthemum and other ornamentals.  Other ornamental hosts of A. ritzemabosi are anemones, asters, carnations, Chinaster, cinerarias, coneflowers,crassulas, creeping bellflower, dahlias, delphiniums, elders, lupines, monkeyflower, phlox,pouchflower, rhododendrons, sages, Siberian wallflower, water peperomia, and zinnias.A common symptom of A. ritezmabosi is seen when the nematode is feeding in the foliar tissue.  Angular lesions are formed, which are chlorotic at first then turn necrotic as the feeding persists.  A sign that an A. ritzeambosi nematode is feeding in the bud of a plant is brown scars on the bud and surrounding tissue.  The nematode also produces secretions that have the ability to cause several other symptoms in infested plants including shortening of inter-nodes, creating a bushy appearance, browning and failure of the shoot to grow, as well as distorted leaf formation.	 tobacco Aphelenchoides ritzemabosi

Aster yellows affects a long list of plant species including native plants, annual flowering plants, ornamentals, weeds, and vegetables crops. The largest family affected is the Asteraceae, and ornamental plants commonly infected are asters, marigolds, coreopsis, sunflowers, and purple coneflower.  Regarding vegetable crops, onion, lettuce, celery, and carrot are affected with the latter suffering the greatest losses.The range of characteristic symptoms varies by the phytoplasma strain, timing of infection, plant species, temperature, age, and size of the plant. The symptoms can be mistaken for herbicide damage or virus symptoms.  They include vein clearing until the entire leaf becomes chlorotic, stunting, deformation, virescence (greening of flowers), phyllody (development of leaf-like flower petals), reddening of foliage, reduced root system, and sterility.  Aster yellows does not typically kill perennial host plants. The symptoms caused by the disease are exacerbated by hot climates while some plants in cooler climates may be asymptomatic.Characteristic symptoms specific to the carrot include initial vein clearing and chlorosis, followed by production of many adventitious shoots, with the tops looking like a witches’-broom.  The internodes of such shoots are short as are the leaf petioles.  Young leaves are smaller and dry up while the petioles of older leaves twist and break off.  Any remaining older leaves turn bronze or red late in the season.  Floral parts are deformed and roots are smaller, abnormally shaped, and have woolly secondary roots.  The carrot roots are predisposed to soft rots in the field and storage and taste unpleasant to the consumer.	 tobacco Aster yellows

Plants that are infected will tend to display early symptoms within 5 days. The BCTV causes many symptoms including:Vein swelling (the earliest and most common symptom)Leaf curlingYellowing of leaves with purple veinsNecrosis and hyperplasia of the phloemFruit deformationPremature fruit ripeningReduced fruit quality and yieldStuntingDeath of young seedlings	 tobacco Beet curly top virus

This virus was first characterized in cucumbers (Cucumis sativus) showing mosaic symptoms in 1934, hence the name Cucumber mosaic. Since then, it has been found to infect a great variety of other plants. These include other vegetables such as squash, melons, peppers, eggplants, tomatoes, beans, carrots, celery, lettuce, spinach, beets, many ornamentals and bedding plants, such as Narcissus, and various weeds. Its presence has been confirmed on every continent of the world, including Antarctica.Symptoms seen with this virus include leaf mosaic or mottling (Fig. 1), yellowing, ringspots, stunting, and leaf, flower and fruit distortion. CMV also induces a type of symptom on leaves known as the "shoestring" effect on many host species. This effect causes young leaves to appear narrow and the entire plant to be stunted.Specifically, CMV can cause cucumbers to turn pale and bumpy. The leaves of these plants turn mosaic and their rugosity is often changed, making leaves wrinkled and misshapen. Growth of these plants is usually also stunted and produces few flowers. Often, cucumber fruits are oddly shaped, appear gray, and tested bitter. These appearances lead to them being referred to as "white pickles".Tomato plants are usually stunted and have poorly shaped leaves, or "fernleaf", when infected by CMV. Also certain strains of CMV can cause partial or total crop loss. CMV in peppers causes slightly different symptoms than the previously mentioned. Pepper plants often have severe foliar damage, shown as mosaic and necrotic rings. Often the peppers themselves are misshapen and contain chlorotic rings and spots. In celery, CMV causes streaking and spotting and can be often confused with symptoms of the celery mosaic virus. Symptoms of CMV in lettuce, such as chlorosis, plant stunting and often do not properly head, can be very similar to those of lettuce mosaic virus.CMV has also been identified in a lesser extent to a number of plant species. It is found to be a minor virus infecting Allium crops. The virus infection causes extensive malformation on garlic plants, and mild malformation to severe necrotic streaks on onion leaves. The severe damages on garlic plants and difficulty of aphids transmission of garlic isolate, were possible causal for the rare CMV on garlic. Genetically, the two onion isolates from Turkey (CMV-14.3Po and CMV-15.5Po) are highly similar to others isolated from various plant species in Mediterranean, European, and East Asian countries. CMV was also detected on American beautyberry, an important wildlife and pollinator food source plant native to North America.In plant tissue this virus makes characteristic viral inclusion bodies which can be diagnostic. They are hexagonal in shape (Fig. 2) and stain both in a protein stain and a nucleic acid stain. The inclusions can also be rhomboidal, may appear hollow (Fig. 2) and can form larger aggregates. The inclusions are not uniformly distributed and can be found in epidermal (Fig. 2), mesophyll, and stomatal cells. These inclusions are made up of virus particles.			 tobacco Cucumber mosaic virus

D. dipsaci has an extensive host range. Major damage occurs in garlic, onion, carrot, fava bean, alfalfa, oats, and strawberry. Ornamental plants can also be infected including hyacinth and tulip. It is estimated that this pathogen infects 400–500 plant species worldwide.In Allium species (onions, garlic, and leeks), infected plants show characteristic symptoms including stunted growth, yellow spots, leaf curl, and foliage lesions. Stems often have swollen regions called “spikkles.” As adult nematodes migrate into the scales of the bulb, and the scales become soft, grey, and loosely packed. Highly infected bulbs can also split apart or show malformed bloating. The leaves of the plant become flaccid and may collapse. This can lead to defoliated plants. Garlic shows similar symptoms of leaf yellowing and stunted bulbs. When harvested, the infected garlic may be missing portions of the root system.In fava beans (Vicia faba), symptoms of infection include reddish-brown stem lesions that can turn black. Young bean pods are dark-brown. Infected seeds are smaller and distorted compared to healthy beans. Speckles and spots are also commonly seen on infected fava beans.Up to 30 biological races occur within D. dipsaci that are mostly distinguished by their host preferences. Very little morphological differences are seen between the races which makes diagnosis difficult. Seed material samples from infected plants can be dissected and viewed under a microscope to confirm the correct race.	 tobacco Ditylenchus dipsaci

One of the most harmful seed and soil borne pathogens, Macrophomina phaseolina is a fungus that infects nearly 500 plant species in more than 100 families. The hosts include: peanut, cabbage, pepper, chickpea, soybean, sunflower, sweet potato, alfalfa, sesame, potato, sorghum, wheat, and corn, among others. The identification of isolates of M. phaseolina is usually based on morphology and efforts to divide the pathogen into subspecies, but because there are wide intraspecific variations in the phenotype of the isolates, these criteria are often not reliable. The failure to correctly detect and identify M. phaseolina using conventional culture-based morphological techniques has led scientists to develop nucleic acid-based molecular approaches, such as highly sensitive and specific polymerase chain reaction-based methods. Researchers have also recently created species-specific oligonucleotide primers and digoxigenin-labeled probes in hopes of better identifying and detecting M. phaseolina.The pathogen M. phaseolina affects the fibrovascular system of the roots and basal internodes of its host, impeding the transport of water and nutrients to the upper parts of the plant. As a result, progressive wilting, premature dying, loss of vigor, and reduced yield are characteristic symptoms of M. phaseolina infection. The fungus also causes many diseases like damping off, seedling blight, collar rot, stem rot, charcoal rot, basal stem rot, and root rot. Although brown lesions may form on the hypocotyls or emerging seedlings, many symptoms occur during or after flowering, including grey discoloration of the stem and taproots, shredding of plant tissue in the stem and top of the taproot, and hollowing of the stem. Small black dots may form beneath the epidermis of the lower stem and in the taproot, giving the stems and roots a charcoal-sprinkled appearance. When the epidermis is removed, small and black microsclerotia (a sign of the disease) may be so numerous that they give a greyish-black tint to the plant tissue. In addition, reddish-brown discoloration and black streaks can form in the pith and vascular tissues of the root and stem.	 tobacco Macrophomina phaseolina

These nematodes cause symptoms both on leaves and roots. Foliar symptoms of root-knot disease may be expressed at any time during the growing season. These symptoms of nematode damage on peanut plants range from stunting, yellowing, wilting and even plant death.  Ferris (1999–2012), also reported that nematodes cause yellowing; mid-day wilting; symptoms of water and nutrient stress; and sometimes death, especially if the nematode is interacting with other organisms.  They can appear in a peanut crop beginning about 100 days after planting or after periods of dry hot weather.  Areas of root-knot nematode damaged peanut are usually round to oblong in shape, and rows of infected plants may never overlap as those of healthy plants. It is common for plants to wilt and eventually die in areas where nematode populations are high.Root symptoms are similar to those caused by all nematodes including a reduction in number of feeder roots and root stunting, but root knot nematodes cause unique symptoms on roots and pods. Nematodes cause galls (knots) to form on both roots and pods of the peanut, and these galls are highly diagnostic for root-knot nematode presence compared to other nematodes affecting peanut. The presence of galls on roots, pegs and pods appears as single or multiple wart-like growths that may or may not be discolored. As root knot nematode infection progresses, and generally later in the season, secondary root and pod rots cause further damage and eventual death of the plants.Many soil-borne fungi, especially Sclerotium rolfsii (which causes southern stem rot) and Sclerotinia minor (which causes Sclerotinia blight), will infect the weakened peanut plants and cause more plant death. Root knot nematode infection of the peg weakens the peg so that it breaks during harvest, contributing to additional yield losses because the detached pods are then left in the soil. Infection of the pods leads to a decline in yield quality.The damage threshold, or the initial nematode population density at which peanut yields begin to decline, has been reported to be in the range of 1 to 10 eggs and second stage juveniles per 500 cm3 soil for M. arenaria on susceptible peanut cultivars.	 tobacco Meloidogyne arenaria

Meloidogyne hapla (Northern root-knot nematode) has a wide host range. It is polyphagous and affects over 550 crops and weeds. It feeds on many agricultural and horticultural plants (vegetables, fruits, ornamentals), but few grasses or cereals. A list of known hosts can be found at the bottom of this page.Symptoms can be seen in the roots, leaves, and the overall growth of the infected plant. In roots, there may be stunting, wilting, and the formation of abnormal growths called galls. Galls are usually small and spherical and are situated near many small roots. They are formed when the nematode enters the root and releases chemicals to enlarge root cells, on which they feed. The roots become defective and therefore cannot transport water and nutrients properly. The end result is stunted, wilted, and yellowing plants (characteristic of nutrient deficiency) and a decreased yield. Severity of the symptoms depends on nematode population density and host plant species and cultivar. As the number of nematodes increase in the area, the number and size of root galls increase as well. Each crop responds to Meloidogyne hapla differently. Carrots typically undergo severe forking with galling of the roots, lettuce have beadlike galls, and grasses and onions have small and barely noticeable galls and symptoms. In potato tubers (special stems), brown spots will appear on areas of the tubers where the females have laid their eggs.If a field has a patchy distribution of symptoms, it usually indicates the presence of nematodes. Most nematodes are not usually distributed uniformly in the soil. To correctly identify Meloidogyne hapla, the infected plant should be sent to a lab for a proper diagnosis. One common method is perineal pattern analysis where the perineum of the female nematode (area between the anus and the vulva) is examined for a specific pattern in ridges and annulations. Another common method is analyzing isozyme (different variations of the same enzyme produced by different genes) electrophoretic profiles using esterase and malate dehydrogenase.	 tobacco Meloidogyne hapla

Plants affected by M. incognita present above ground symptoms of water- and nutrient-stress, yellowing, wilting, and stunting. Below ground galling on roots, bulbs, tubers is the typical symptom. Plant death may occur in high infestation level.	 tobacco Meloidogyne incognita

Because there are so many different hosts for this pathogen, the symptoms are very variable. Common symptoms include abnormal leaf color, abnormal leaf form, wilting leaves, galls, swollen roots, reduced root system, dwarfing and senescence (Cabi 2018). This pathogen does the most damage when present in light soils with hot weather conditions (Alford 2012).	 tobacco Meloidogyne javanica

Tobacco plants with an upright position of small patches of the seed bed are typically early signs of blue mold. These leaves are usually 2–4 centimetres (0.79–1.57 in) in diameter, and normally spotted with yellow, gray, or a bluish mold in the lower surface.  Younger plants that are up to four weeks old and are affected by the disease are easily killed by the oomycete. Older plants become deformed and dark, indicating that parts of the plant are dead. In more severe cases the stem and root become infected and turn to a brownish color. The observation of downy mold in the lower surface of the leaf is the most reliable symptom of blue mold. Downy mold carries thousands of small reproductive units called conidia If conidia forms at different spots in the seedbed an outbreak is more than likely to occur. The symptoms usually take place before it's obvious. The symptoms evolve rapidly and are typically noticeable over night.The oomycete frequently takes place when the vein of the leaves reaches vascular tissue of the stem, causing weakness and lodging. This infection is called "systemic infection". The infection causes a stunt in growth and the leaves become narrow and short. The vascular system of the plants usually turns brown in color and the weakened stalk usually causing the stalk to fall over.The mould is highly weather sensitive. During the time when the weather is cool, wet, or overcast the disease can evolve in a greenhouse or field. The disease spreads rapidly because of the pathogen. The rate of continental spread is based on the potential for high levels of inoculum and effective wind spores. When the weather is clear, dry, and hot the disease usually stops spreading and more than likely stops all together.	 tobacco Peronospora hyoscyami f.sp. tabacina

Tobacco plants with an upright position of small patches of the seed bed are typically early signs of blue mold. These leaves are usually 2–4 centimetres (0.79–1.57 in) in diameter, and normally spotted with yellow, gray, or a bluish mold in the lower surface.  Younger plants that are up to four weeks old and are affected by the disease are easily killed by the oomycete. Older plants become deformed and dark, indicating that parts of the plant are dead. In more severe cases the stem and root become infected and turn to a brownish color. The observation of downy mold in the lower surface of the leaf is the most reliable symptom of blue mold. Downy mold carries thousands of small reproductive units called conidia If conidia forms at different spots in the seedbed an outbreak is more than likely to occur. The symptoms usually take place before it's obvious. The symptoms evolve rapidly and are typically noticeable over night.The oomycete frequently takes place when the vein of the leaves reaches vascular tissue of the stem, causing weakness and lodging. This infection is called "systemic infection". The infection causes a stunt in growth and the leaves become narrow and short. The vascular system of the plants usually turns brown in color and the weakened stalk usually causing the stalk to fall over.The mould is highly weather sensitive. During the time when the weather is cool, wet, or overcast the disease can evolve in a greenhouse or field. The disease spreads rapidly because of the pathogen. The rate of continental spread is based on the potential for high levels of inoculum and effective wind spores. When the weather is clear, dry, and hot the disease usually stops spreading and more than likely stops all together.	 tobacco Peronospora tabacina

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 tobacco Phytophthora nicotianae

Phytoplasmas can infect and cause various symptoms in more than 700 plant species. One characteristic symptom is abnormal floral organ development including phyllody (i.e., the production of leaf-like structures in place of flowers) and virescence (i.e., the development of green flowers attributable to a loss of pigment by petal cells). Phytoplasma-harboring flowering plants may nevertheless be sterile. The expression of genes involved in maintaining the apical meristem or in the development of floral organs is altered in the morphologically affected floral organs of phytoplasma-infected plants.A phytoplasma infection often triggers leaf yellowing, probably due to the presence of phytoplasma cells in phloem, which can affect phloem function and carbohydrate transport, inhibit chlorophyll biosynthesis, and trigger chlorophyll breakdown. These symptoms may be attributable to stress caused by the infection rather than a specific pathogenetic process.Many phytoplasma-infected plants develop a bushy or "witches' broom" appearance due to changes in their normal growth patterns. Most plants exhibit apical dominance but infection can trigger the proliferation of axillary (side) shoots and a reduction in internode size. Such symptoms are actually useful in the commercial production of poinsettias. Infection triggers more axillary shoot production; the poinsettia plants thus produce more than a single flower.	 tobacco Phytoplasma

PVY belongs to the genus Potyvirus, the largest genus of plant viruses and possibly the most destructive one in potato crops. The genus includes more than 200 species that bring about significant losses in the agricultural arena. PVY infects many economically important plant species. These include potato (Solanum tuberosum), tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum), tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) and pepper (Capsicum spp.). The level of damage to crop is determined by the strain of PVY infecting the plants, the viral load, the time at which infection occurs as well as the tolerance the host possesses toward the virus. Resistance to PVY infection by hosts is low in many cases. Infection of a potato field with PVY may ultimately result in 10-100% loss in yield.It has been shown that the PVY has different isolates according to the symptoms they induce in various potato plant species. Extensive biological, serological and molecular variability of PVY isolates makes the classification of isolates as particular strains particularly difficult. Occurrence of a variety of symptoms and the emergence of the necrotic PVYNTN has led to a search for more reliable classification tools than simple serological identification. Traditionally three chief strains of PVY are recognized: PVYC, PVYN and PVYO. PVYC, originally known as Potato Virus C, was the first to be recognized and was identified in the 1930s. PVYC induces hypersensitive responses in a wide range of potato cultivars. These reactions include the formation of mild mosaic patterns or stipple streak. Unlike the other strains of PVY, some PVYC strains are non-aphid transmissible. Previous studies by Visser et al. did not identify any of the local isolates as being PVYC but it has been reported to occur to in South Africa. A second strain of PVY is PVYN. This strain was described in tobacco plants growing close to potato plants. PVYN results in leaf necrosis and mild or even no damage to the tubers. The ordinary strain of PVY is denoted as PVYO. Infection of a potato plant with the PVYO strain results in mild tuber damage and does not cause leaf necrosis. Both PVYN and PVYO are aphid transmissible and occur in South Africa. In Europe these two strains have been shown to have recombined to form PVYNTN. The PVYNTN has been accredited with the ability to induce potato tuber necrotic ringspot disease (PTNRD). Tubers damaged by PTNRD become unmarketable and infection by PVYNTN thus results in a larger economic impact than infection by the other strains.	 tobacco Potato virus Y

Root lesion nematodes infect a great variety of hosts. Pratylenchus penetrans alone has over 350 host plants. They include agricultural crops such as soybeans, potatoes, corn, bananas, and wheat. The genus is found most often in corn. Signs of disease are similar in most plants and generally include necrotic lesions of the roots. The lesions can also be entrances for pathogenic bacteria and fungi, which produce secondary infections. Above ground the plant becomes stunted, chlorotic, and wilted, and it often dies. A crop field may be patchy as plants wither and die. Root lesion nematodes can cause significant yield losses.	 tobacco Pratylenchus

Root lesion nematode has a wide host range, including hosts like apple, cherry, conifers, roses, tomato, potato, corn, onion and sugarbeets, and ornamentals such as Narcissus. More than 164 hosts for P. penetrans have been recorded.  In the host range there are some hosts that are susceptible, such as wheat, oat, field pea, faba bean, and chickpea, and some that are moderately susceptible, such as barley and canola.Some general symptoms that are produced on infected plants include poor growth, fruit spot, and chlorotic foliage.  These secondary symptoms are often due to plant root stress.  These make it rather difficult to diagnose nematode diseases in general.  The roots when infected produce necrotic lesions, which are darkened areas of dead tissue, on the surface and throughout the cortex of the infected roots.  These lesions turn the root to reddish-brown to black and are initially spotty.  As the nematode continues to feed, the lesions can coalesce to become large necrotic areas of tissue that may eventually girdle the root. The population size of the nematode affects the degree of symptoms.  Low to moderate populations may cause no visible above ground symptoms, while high populations can lead to stunting, nutrient and water deficiencies, and eventual die-back of the plant.  On potato, infection of root lesion nematode can cause a secondary invasion by Verticillium dahliae leading to Potato Early Dying.  Onions are another important host of P. penetrans.  Onions are an important vegetable for consumption in the United States and upon infection the nematodes can limit yield and quality of the bulbs.  Populations of more than 0.01 nematode per cubic centimeter of soil resulted in injury to onions.  There is a negative relationship between the increasing inoculum levels on onion root and top fresh weight at harvest.	 tobacco Pratylenchus penetrans

Pythium aphanidermatum is responsible for pre- and post-emergence damping off.  Pre-emergence damping off is when the seed is infected prior to germination.  This can result in poor or no germination, and is observable as a browning or rotting of the seed.  Post-emergence damping off takes place after germination and results in a thinning, water-soaked stem near the plant collar, which eventually causes the collapse of the plant.  P. aphanidermatum can also cause root rot.  Symptoms of root rot include stunted growth, chlorotic leaves, leaf drop, and wilting.  The infection begins at the root tip, and can cause the infected region to lose its protective outer layer, exposing the inner root to other pathogens	 tobacco Pythium aphanidermatum

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 tobacco Rhizoctonia solani

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 tobacco Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 tobacco Thanatephorus cucumeris

Symptoms seen on plants infected with this virus can vary depending on the plant. However typical symptoms include vein clearing, mottling, and necrotic lines or etching.  Symptoms can occur on leaves and fruit and the plants can become stunted.Like other potyviruses, TEV makes viral inclusions that can be seen in the light microscope if properly stained.  This particular potyvirus makes two kinds of inclusions that can be diagnostic in a known host.  One of the inclusions is the cylindrical inclusions found in the cytoplasm of infected cells and the second inclusion is found in the nucleus. Neither inclusion type stains in the nucleic acid stain (AzureA). (Inclusions of tobacco etch virus in various hosts.)	 tobacco Tobacco etch virus

Like other plant pathogenic viruses, TMV has a very wide host range and has different effects depending on the host being infected. Tobacco mosaic virus has been known to cause a production loss for flue cured tobacco of up to two percent in North Carolina. It is known to infect members of nine plant families, and at least 125 individual species, including tobacco, tomato, pepper (all members of the useful Solanaceae), cucumbers, a number of ornamental flowers, and beans including Phaseolus vulgaris and Vigna unguiculata. There are many different strains. The first symptom of this virus disease is a light green coloration between the veins of young leaves. This is followed quickly by the development of a "mosaic" or mottled pattern of light and dark green areas in the leaves. Rugosity may also be seen where the infected plant leaves display small localized random wrinkles. These symptoms develop quickly and are more pronounced on younger leaves. Its infection does not result in plant death, but if infection occurs early in the season, plants are stunted. Lower leaves are subjected to "mosaic burn"  especially during periods of hot and dry weather. In these cases, large dead areas develop in the leaves. This constitutes one of the most destructive phases of Tobacco mosaic virus infection. Infected leaves may be crinkled, puckered, or elongated. However, if TMV infects crops like grape and apple, it is almost symptomless. TMV is able  to infect and complete its replication cycle in a plant pathogenic fungus,TMV is able to enter and replicate in cells of C. acutatum, C. clavatum, and C. theobromicola, which may not be an exception, although it has neither been found nor probably searched for in nature.	 tobacco Tobacco mosaic virus

Tobacco necrosis virus (TNV) can thrive on a handful of viable hosts. These hosts include tobacco, zucchini, cucumbers, carrots, French bean, tomatoes, potatoes, and tulips. There are a variety of symptoms that are dependent on the host species. In infected plants, abnormal coloring or necrotic tissue in the leaves may occur and roots may have lesions. If bark is present on the plant, it may become discolored. Fruit or tubers can become covered with sunken and discolored spots and can be smaller overall. On a whole-plant scale, damping off or early dying may occur.	 tobacco Tobacco necrosis virus

Boning  first discovered Tobacco Rattle Virus in 1931 in Germany.  It was discovered in Nicotiana tabacum, which is a species of cultivated tobacco.   Tobacco Rattle Virus is common and potentially serious in a variety of herbaceous ornamentals including, but not limited to, astilbe, bleeding heart, coral bells, daffodil, epimedium, gladiolus, hyacinth, marigold, tulip and vinca.  Tobacco rattle can also affect vegetable crops such as beans, beets, peppers, potatoes, and spinach.  On potatoes, the disease is referred to as corky ring spot. The disease corky ringspot of potatoes was first reported in the United States in 1946, and was identified incorrectly as a novel virus until advances in genetics demonstrated it to be the result of TRV.Symptoms of Tobacco Rattle Virus vary based on the plant host, which differs widely in this disease.  Common symptoms include mottling, chlorotic or necrotic local lesion, ringspots or line patterns, and systemic necrosis.	 tobacco Tobacco rattle virus

TSV has been reported worldwide in North and South America, Europe, India, Japan, Australia, New Zealand and South America. TSV has a wide host range including both monocots and dicots.  Economically important crop hosts include peanuts, sunflower, soybean, cranberry, cotton, chickpea and mung beans.  As with many plant viruses, diagnosis is very difficult because TSV has very wide host range and has different effects depending on the host being infected. Symptoms of TSV may include black streaks on stems and leaves, stunted growth, chlorosis, leaf mosaic, lodging, and deformed growing tips, to name a few. On tobacco plants, TSV causes chlorosis, with a unique pattern of white or dark necrotic leaf tissue close to the veins of the leaf.  As its name implies, necrotic streaks are found on leaf veins of infected plants.  Symptoms are strongly influenced by temperature.  For example, plants experiencing a temperature of 20° Celsius will develop small necrotic spots while at temperatures above 30° Celsius, necrotic spots will become large necrotic arcs. Symptoms are not sufficient to correctly identify TSV - serology and PCR techniques are required.	 tobacco Tobacco streak virus

TSWV infects a variety of hosts, contributing to its global economic impact on crops. There are over a thousand different hosts for TSWV. The host range of TSWV includes agronomically important crops like tomatoes and tobacco. The symptoms of TSWV vary from host to host. There is also variability of symptoms within a single type of host due to the age of the plant, nutrition and the environment (especially temperature). Common symptoms include stunting, ringspots on fruit and necrosis of leaves. There are many different strains of TSWV, and differences in symptoms may also be attributed to the differences in the number of strains present.	 tobacco Tomato spotted wilt virus

There are many strains of Verticillium dahliae which are categorized into vegetative compatibility groups (VCG). These groups comprise strains that are able to exchange genetic material via anastomosis. Each VCG affects a few or only one host and the virulence of the pathogen varies by host. While individual V. dahliae strains are relatively host specific, as a species it has a wide range.Verticillium dahliae has a very wide host range, affecting over 300 plant species. Some susceptible crops include Brussels sprouts, cabbage, eggplant, cucumbers, mint, pepper, potatoes, pumpkin, spinach, tomato, watermelon, honeydew, and cantaloupe. Of these, tomato, potato, and eggplant have resistant or tolerant varieties.Symptoms of this disease are seen throughout the plant. Leaves may have abnormal coloration, necrotic areas, wilt, and/or fall off the plant. The stem may have discolored vascular tissue, exhibit rosetting (shortened internodes of the plant caused by reduced growth, resulting in a rosette-like appearance), and/or be stunted. Early senescence and dieback may also occur.Microsclerotia can be seen under a lens as small black structures in the vasculature of living and dead plants. This feature can be used to distinguish V. dahliae from V. albo-atrum, the other verticillium wilt pathogen.	 tobacco Verticillium dahliae

The symptoms that plants exhibit in response to the pathogenicity of Xiphinema americanum are similar to those of other migratory ectoparasitic nematodes of roots. It is common to see poor growth and or stunting of the plant, yellowing or wilting of the foliage, and reduced root systems which can include root necrosis, lack of feeder or secondary roots, and occasional tufts of stubby rootlets.Young, shortleaved yellow pine trees with moderate swelling of roots with clusters of short, stubby branches were the first demonstration of X. americanum pathogenicity in 1955. X. americanum can also cause severe effects on foliage, sometimes causing chlorosis and complete defoliation as seen on Guatemalan coffee trees. The dagger nematode causes the devitalization of root tips and overall root death when they feed at the root tips and root sides of strawberry plants. Reddish-brown lesions that turn black and necrotic with time result at the sites of feeding, and result in reduced root systems and stunted tops.Xiphinema americanum is listed as a C-rated pest in California due to its wide host range of California crops. C-rated pests are widespread, and are of known economic or environmental detriment, according to The California Department of Food and Agriculture. Due to X. americanum's difficulty in maintaining high populations in frequently tilled soils (see Control), the dagger nematode is mainly an economic problem on biennial and perennial crops rather than annual crops (except for damage to emerging seedlings).	 tobacco Xiphinema americanum

Alternaria alternata has many different hosts depending on its forma specialis.A. a. f. sp. lycopersici (AAL) infects only certain cultivars of tomato plants and is often referred to as Alternaria stem canker of tomato. AAL's main symptom is cankers in the stem. It resides in seeds and seedlings, and is often spread by spores as they become airborne and land on plants. It can also spread throughout other plants.  Under severe infection, lesions enlarge and become coalesced causing blighting of the leaves. This symptom progression occurred in research done in Pakistan: the symptoms on affected tomatoes started with yellowing and browning of the lower leaves, then began developing on the leaf tips and along the margins of the leaf petiole. This progression continued until the entire leaves were covered in diseased tissue and then fell off. In addition to necrotic leaves and petioles, plants are found to have severe defoliation, with considerable yield losses when it occurs before flowering. The tomato fruit can also be infected as well, with brown cankers dotting them and making them inedible. Once the disease has spread to a certain point, little can be done to save the tomato plant.There are several host factors that affect disease development. For example, various signaling pathways in tomato plants affect their susceptibility to AAL. Salicylic acid promotes resistance to AAL and antagonizes the ethylene response. Ethylene controls the synthesis of jasmonic acid, which is a necessary pathway for immunity. Independently of each other, salicylic acid, ethylene, and jasmonic acid can influence the susceptibility of tomato to AAL. Diagnosis of AAL is often from observing signs and symptoms from this fungal pathogen. In addition, a tomato cultivar's resistance to a toxin produced by AAL also affects disease development.	 tomato Alternaria alternata

Alternaria solani infects stems, leaves and fruits of tomato (Solanum lycopersicum L.), potato (S. tuberosum), eggplant (S. melongena L.), bell pepper and hot pepper (Capsicum spp.), and other members of the family Solanaceae. Distinguishing symptoms of A. solani include leaf spot and defoliation, which are most pronounced in the lower canopy. In some cases, A. solani may also cause damping off.	 tomato Alternaria solani

When the infection occurs in an early stage of the tomato plant there may be wilting on leaves because Clavibacter michiganensis subsp. michiganensis enter the plant by wounds, including root wounds, and if the bacterium gets to the xylem then a systemic infection is likely that may plug the xylem vessels. The wilting may only show on one side of the leaf and may recover during cooler periods. The entire system of xylem within the plant allows the bacteria to form titers of up to 109 bacteria per gram of plant tissue. Wilting may eventually spread to all leaves and these leaves, along with their petioles, may also show distorted, curled growth. One way to diagnose a severe vascular infection is to pinch the stem. If the epidermis and outer layer of the cortex separate from the inner stem then there is severe vascular infection. These exposed parts will have a soapy feel. Canker lesions, though rare, may develop on the stem. These cankers are necrotic regions where the epidermis is gone. As the bacteria continues its colonization, the canker will deepen and expand. In terms of fruit development, tomatoes may fail to develop altogether or may look marbled because they are ripening unevenly.If infection occurs at a late stage of plant development, plants are able to survive and generate fruits. However, the plant may appear stressed rather than wilted and may develop white interveinal areas that will develop into brown necrotic tissue. Often the seeds are infected as well.Superficial infections increase the risk of epidemics. They occur when the bacteria multiply on the epidermis of the host, enter through stomata, or enter through a very shallow wound that does not allow the pathogen to reach the xylem tissue. The host may look like it was rubbed with cornmeal or coarse flour but it is actually a series of blisters that me be raised or sunken and appear white to pale orange. The most common leaf symptom is a dark brown spot surrounded by a sort of orange-like area on the edge of the leaf. Fruits may develop "bird's eye" spotting, which are pale green to white raised pustules that have a brown center and chlorotic halo. Pictures of these symptoms are available at the cited reference.However, latent infections are common.The Clavibacter michiganensis subsp. michiganensis wild type strain NCPPB382 carries two plasmids associated with virulence: pCM1 and pCM2. The avirulent strain, CMM100, does not contain these plasmids. Strains that carried one of the two plasmids were found to be virulent but wilting symptoms were delayed. The virulent and avirulent strains produced the same amount of exopolysaccharides, suggesting that EPS does not play a significant role in pathogenicity.	 tomato Bacterial Canker of Tomato

An irregular browning leaf margin which may or may not be bordered by a pale halo.Symptoms re-occur every year, spreading throughout the tree crown, eventually killing the host plant.	 tomato Bacterial spot

Buckeye rot of tomato affects tomato plants, although there are many other plants that are affected, including pepper, potato, tobacco, pineapple, and various other hosts. Upon infection, brown and greyish-green water-soaked spots appear on the fruit. These spots develop into lesions that resemble the markings of a bull's eye with alternating dark and light brown concentric rings. These are very smooth lesions, barely raised, unlike the rough lesions found in late blight (Phytophthora infestans), which is a similar pathogen. Buckeye rot lesions may cover half or more of the fruit and the margins of lesions will be smooth but not sharply defined. Finally, a white fungal-like growth may appear within the lesion. While fruit rot is the most common symptom, damping off and stem cankers are possible.  The disease does not affect the foliage of the plant, which further helps separate it from late blight .	 tomato Buckeye rot of tomato

When the infection occurs in an early stage of the tomato plant there may be wilting on leaves because Clavibacter michiganensis subsp. michiganensis enter the plant by wounds, including root wounds, and if the bacterium gets to the xylem then a systemic infection is likely that may plug the xylem vessels. The wilting may only show on one side of the leaf and may recover during cooler periods. The entire system of xylem within the plant allows the bacteria to form titers of up to 109 bacteria per gram of plant tissue. Wilting may eventually spread to all leaves and these leaves, along with their petioles, may also show distorted, curled growth. One way to diagnose a severe vascular infection is to pinch the stem. If the epidermis and outer layer of the cortex separate from the inner stem then there is severe vascular infection. These exposed parts will have a soapy feel. Canker lesions, though rare, may develop on the stem. These cankers are necrotic regions where the epidermis is gone. As the bacteria continues its colonization, the canker will deepen and expand. In terms of fruit development, tomatoes may fail to develop altogether or may look marbled because they are ripening unevenly.If infection occurs at a late stage of plant development, plants are able to survive and generate fruits. However, the plant may appear stressed rather than wilted and may develop white interveinal areas that will develop into brown necrotic tissue. Often the seeds are infected as well.Superficial infections increase the risk of epidemics. They occur when the bacteria multiply on the epidermis of the host, enter through stomata, or enter through a very shallow wound that does not allow the pathogen to reach the xylem tissue. The host may look like it was rubbed with cornmeal or coarse flour but it is actually a series of blisters that me be raised or sunken and appear white to pale orange. The most common leaf symptom is a dark brown spot surrounded by a sort of orange-like area on the edge of the leaf. Fruits may develop "bird's eye" spotting, which are pale green to white raised pustules that have a brown center and chlorotic halo. Pictures of these symptoms are available at the cited reference.However, latent infections are common.The Clavibacter michiganensis subsp. michiganensis wild type strain NCPPB382 carries two plasmids associated with virulence: pCM1 and pCM2. The avirulent strain, CMM100, does not contain these plasmids. Strains that carried one of the two plasmids were found to be virulent but wilting symptoms were delayed. The virulent and avirulent strains produced the same amount of exopolysaccharides, suggesting that EPS does not play a significant role in pathogenicity.	 tomato Clavibacter michiganensis

Colletotrichum coccodes can infect potato, onion, tomato and has a large host range. The disease also infects hosts from the Cucurbitaceae, Fabaceae and Solanaceae families).Colletotrichum coccodes can cause lesions, twisted leaves, and a bleached color on onion.On tomato, can see that there are sunken in dark spots. As the disease continues to develop can begin to see spots that are rotting. The pathogen can infect both green and ripe fruit; spots are not evident on green right away, but over time they develop. (Dillard, 1987).  Symptoms are most common on the fruit, but they may also appear on the stem, leaves, and roots.In potato, C. coccodes is characterized by silvery lesions on the tuber surface which result in a deterioration in skin quality. In addition to causing tuber blemish symptoms, C. coccodes also causes symptoms on stems and foliage, which result in crop losses, and is implicated as a factor in the potato early dying disease complex. In the past the pathogen was not regarded as an issue, but it has become more prevalent.	 tomato Colletotrichum coccodes

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 tomato Colletotrichum gloeosporioides

This virus was first characterized in cucumbers (Cucumis sativus) showing mosaic symptoms in 1934, hence the name Cucumber mosaic. Since then, it has been found to infect a great variety of other plants. These include other vegetables such as squash, melons, peppers, eggplants, tomatoes, beans, carrots, celery, lettuce, spinach, beets, many ornamentals and bedding plants, such as Narcissus, and various weeds. Its presence has been confirmed on every continent of the world, including Antarctica.Symptoms seen with this virus include leaf mosaic or mottling (Fig. 1), yellowing, ringspots, stunting, and leaf, flower and fruit distortion. CMV also induces a type of symptom on leaves known as the "shoestring" effect on many host species. This effect causes young leaves to appear narrow and the entire plant to be stunted.Specifically, CMV can cause cucumbers to turn pale and bumpy. The leaves of these plants turn mosaic and their rugosity is often changed, making leaves wrinkled and misshapen. Growth of these plants is usually also stunted and produces few flowers. Often, cucumber fruits are oddly shaped, appear gray, and tested bitter. These appearances lead to them being referred to as "white pickles".Tomato plants are usually stunted and have poorly shaped leaves, or "fernleaf", when infected by CMV. Also certain strains of CMV can cause partial or total crop loss. CMV in peppers causes slightly different symptoms than the previously mentioned. Pepper plants often have severe foliar damage, shown as mosaic and necrotic rings. Often the peppers themselves are misshapen and contain chlorotic rings and spots. In celery, CMV causes streaking and spotting and can be often confused with symptoms of the celery mosaic virus. Symptoms of CMV in lettuce, such as chlorosis, plant stunting and often do not properly head, can be very similar to those of lettuce mosaic virus.CMV has also been identified in a lesser extent to a number of plant species. It is found to be a minor virus infecting Allium crops. The virus infection causes extensive malformation on garlic plants, and mild malformation to severe necrotic streaks on onion leaves. The severe damages on garlic plants and difficulty of aphids transmission of garlic isolate, were possible causal for the rare CMV on garlic. Genetically, the two onion isolates from Turkey (CMV-14.3Po and CMV-15.5Po) are highly similar to others isolated from various plant species in Mediterranean, European, and East Asian countries. CMV was also detected on American beautyberry, an important wildlife and pollinator food source plant native to North America.In plant tissue this virus makes characteristic viral inclusion bodies which can be diagnostic. They are hexagonal in shape (Fig. 2) and stain both in a protein stain and a nucleic acid stain. The inclusions can also be rhomboidal, may appear hollow (Fig. 2) and can form larger aggregates. The inclusions are not uniformly distributed and can be found in epidermal (Fig. 2), mesophyll, and stomatal cells. These inclusions are made up of virus particles.			 tomato Cucumber mosaic virus

Disease signs in young buds are curly, discolored leaves, yellow speckled, severe disease will cause buds to be sagged, trees are shortened, the ability to produce very few fruits, abnormal fruits and malt taste.Due to the pathogen's confinement within phloem tissues, necrosis, degeneration, and death of the periderm and phloem cells adjacent to sieve tubes ensue. Phloem necrosis also is easily observed as dark concentric rings or linear streaks in cross section or longitudinal section of the taproot, respectively.	 tomato Curly top

The fungal pathogen Fusarium oxysporum affects a wide variety of hosts of any age. Tomato, tobacco, legumes, cucurbits, sweet potatoes and banana are a few of the most susceptible plants, but it also infects other herbaceous plants. F. oxysporum generally produces symptoms such as wilting, chlorosis, necrosis, premature leaf drop, browning of the vascular system, stunting and damping-off. The most important of these is vascular wilt. Fusarium wilt starts out looking like vein clearing on the younger leaves and drooping of the older lower leaves, followed by stunting, yellowing of the lower leaves, defoliation, marginal necrosis and plant death. On older plants, symptoms are more distinct between the blossoming and fruit maturation stages.F. oxysporum is split into divisions called formae speciales (singular forma specialis, abbreviated f.sp.). Over 100 formae speciales divisions are identified, each with one or two different races. Each forma specialis within the species are host-specific (i.e. specific to a certain plant) and produce different symptoms:F. oxysporum f. sp. batatas affects sweet potato. The symptoms include leaf chlorosis, stunting, and leaf drop. It is transmitted through the soil and through vascular wounds in plant material.Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. canariensis causes wilt of Canary Island date palm and other propagated palms. The disease is spread through contaminated seed, soil and pruning tools.F. oxysporum f. sp. cubense causes Panama disease on banana. It is found everywhere bananas are grown in Africa, Asia, Central and South America. It attacks banana plants of all ages and spreads mainly through the soil. It causes wilting and yellowing of the leaves.F. oxysporum f. sp. lycopersici causes vascular wilt in tomato. The disease starts out as yellowing and drooping on one side of the plant. Leaf wilting, plant stunting, browning of the vascular system, leaf death and lack of fruit production also occur.F. oxysporum f. sp. melonis attacks muskmelon and cantaloupe. It causes damping-off in seedlings and causes chlorosis, stunting and wilting in old plants. Necrotic streaks can appear on the stems.	 tomato Fusarium wilt

C. gloeosporioides has an extremely broad host range, causing anthracnose disease on a variety of crops such as cereals and grasses, legumes, fruits, vegetables, perennial crops, and trees. It has been observed as infecting harvested durian of the species Durio graveolens. Some studies suggest that C. gloeosporioides has sub-populations specific to each host. The symptoms can vary from host to host, but tend to manifest as water soaked, sunken spots on fruit that turn necrotic as the disease progresses, and small dark lesions on leaves.__Using mangoes, one of the most economically important hosts, as an example, fruit symptoms manifest late in the season as infected fruit ripens to maturity.  At this point fruit develops large, sunken areas of decay that are dark brown to black in color. Occasional fruit cracking can also occur when linear necrotic lesions develop into deep cracks through the epidermis that can extend down into the pulp of the fruit. Because symptoms remain unseen before ripening, plants that appear healthy upon picking can become quickly riddled with disease in storage or transport.  Mango leaves exhibit symptoms as small, angular, brown/black lesions that enlarge as the disease progresses.  Again, these symptoms vary from host to host, but mangoes serve as a decent example for the general symptomatology of this pathogen.In chestnuts, disease symptoms may also be called blossom end rot.   Browning of the chestnut burs at the blossom end may be a first sign in August. At harvest time, blackening of pointed end of the chestnut shell and kernel indicates infection. The extent of blackening can be variable. It can range from a barely visible black tip of the kernel to the whole nut being black.  Parts of the nut kernel with no color change remain edible.Regardless of host, C. gloeosporioides produces several signs useful for diagnosis.  When observed under a dissecting microscope acervuli can often be spotted if the diseased tissue has recently been under sporulating conditions.  These acervuli will appear orange to pinkish in color, due to the masses of conidia being produced on the surface, and will have black, hair-like, setae spiking out in several directions.  Under a compound microscope conidia appear ovoid in shape.  On certain hosts the teleomorph of this pathogen (G. cingulata) readily produces perithecia full of asci.  When cultured on potato dextrose media, this species can appear gray, orange, or pink in color, and will often exhibit concentric rings of growth radiating from the center.  C. gloeosporioides can also be identified by PCR if the required resources are available.	 tomato Glomerella cingulata

Early symptoms of gray leaf spot can be seen on leaves as small, spherical lesions with a yellow halo around them. These first lesions may be tan or brown before fungal sporulation begins. The initial disease can be hard to identify as gray leaf spot at this stage because it looks similar to eyespot and common rust. However, as the lesions mature they elongate into rectangular, narrow, brown to gray spots that usually develop on the lower leaves and spread upward on the plant during the season. The lesions elongate and expand parallel to the leaf veins and can be 1.5 to 2 inches long. With favorable weather the lesions can rapidly merge and kill the entire leaf. Mature gray leaf spot symptoms can also be confused with symptoms of anthracnose leaf blight.	 tomato Gray Leaf Spot

The asexual life cycle of Phytophthora infestans is characterized by alternating phases of hyphal growth, sporulation, sporangia germination (either through zoospore release or direct germination, i.e. germ tube emergence from the sporangium), and the re-establishment of hyphal growth. There is also a sexual cycle, which occurs when isolates of opposite mating type (A1 and A2, see § Mating types below) meet. Hormonal communication triggers the formation of the sexual spores, called oospores. The different types of spores play major roles in the dissemination and survival of P. infestans. Sporangia are spread by wind or water and enable the movement of P. infestans  between different host plants. The zoospores released from sporangia are biflagellated and chemotactic, allowing further movement of P. infestans on water films found on leaves or soils. Both sporangia and zoospores are short-lived, in contrast to oospores which can persist in a viable form for many years.People can observe Phytophthora infestans produce dark green, then brown then black spots on the surface of potato leaves and stems, often near the tips or edges, where water or dew collects. The sporangia and sporangiophores appear white on the lower surface of the foliage. As for tuber blight, the white mycelium often shows on the tubers' surface.Under ideal conditions, P. infestans completes its life cycle on potato or tomato foliage in about five days. Sporangia develop on the leaves, spreading through the crop when temperatures are above 10 °C (50 °F) and humidity is over 75–80% for 2 days or more. Rain can wash spores into the soil where they infect young tubers, and the spores can also travel long distances on the wind. The early stages of blight are easily missed. Symptoms include the appearance of dark blotches on leaf tips and plant stems. White mold will appear under the leaves in humid conditions and the whole plant may quickly collapse. Infected tubers develop grey or dark patches that are reddish brown beneath the skin, and quickly decay to a foul-smelling mush caused by the infestation of secondary soft bacterial rots. Seemingly healthy tubers may rot later when in store.P. infestans survives poorly in nature apart from on its plant hosts. Under most conditions, the hyphae and asexual sporangia can survive for only brief periods in plant debris or soil, and are generally killed off during frosts or very warm weather. The exceptions involve oospores, and hyphae present within tubers. The persistence of viable pathogen within tubers, such as those that are left in the ground after the previous year's harvest or left in cull piles is a major problem in disease management. In particular, volunteer plants sprouting from infected tubers are thought to be a major source of inoculum (or propagules) at the start of a growing season. This can have devastating effects by destroying entire crops.	 tomato Late Blight of Potato

L. taurica is the pathogen responsible for powdery mildew on onions, but it can also infect peppers, tomatoes, eggplant, cotton, and garlic. While L. taurica can infect many different plants it is actually very host specific. Different races of L. taurica can only infect certain crops, and even specific cultivars within the same crop. An accurate way to describe its host specificity is that this disease is, “a composite species consisting of many host-specific races." Symptoms of Onion Powdery Mildew (OPM) are usually seen as circular or oblong lesions that are 5 to 20 mm and have a chlorotic or necrotic appearance. The lesions appear on older leaves before the bulb of the onion begins to form, but also can occur on the younger leaves towards the end of the season. As the disease progresses signs of OPM can also be seen. On the lesions white mycelium can be found with conidiophores bearing either lanceolate or rounded condia.	 tomato Leveillula taurica

One of the most harmful seed and soil borne pathogens, Macrophomina phaseolina is a fungus that infects nearly 500 plant species in more than 100 families. The hosts include: peanut, cabbage, pepper, chickpea, soybean, sunflower, sweet potato, alfalfa, sesame, potato, sorghum, wheat, and corn, among others. The identification of isolates of M. phaseolina is usually based on morphology and efforts to divide the pathogen into subspecies, but because there are wide intraspecific variations in the phenotype of the isolates, these criteria are often not reliable. The failure to correctly detect and identify M. phaseolina using conventional culture-based morphological techniques has led scientists to develop nucleic acid-based molecular approaches, such as highly sensitive and specific polymerase chain reaction-based methods. Researchers have also recently created species-specific oligonucleotide primers and digoxigenin-labeled probes in hopes of better identifying and detecting M. phaseolina.The pathogen M. phaseolina affects the fibrovascular system of the roots and basal internodes of its host, impeding the transport of water and nutrients to the upper parts of the plant. As a result, progressive wilting, premature dying, loss of vigor, and reduced yield are characteristic symptoms of M. phaseolina infection. The fungus also causes many diseases like damping off, seedling blight, collar rot, stem rot, charcoal rot, basal stem rot, and root rot. Although brown lesions may form on the hypocotyls or emerging seedlings, many symptoms occur during or after flowering, including grey discoloration of the stem and taproots, shredding of plant tissue in the stem and top of the taproot, and hollowing of the stem. Small black dots may form beneath the epidermis of the lower stem and in the taproot, giving the stems and roots a charcoal-sprinkled appearance. When the epidermis is removed, small and black microsclerotia (a sign of the disease) may be so numerous that they give a greyish-black tint to the plant tissue. In addition, reddish-brown discoloration and black streaks can form in the pith and vascular tissues of the root and stem.	 tomato Macrophomina phaseolina

L. taurica is the pathogen responsible for powdery mildew on onions, but it can also infect peppers, tomatoes, eggplant, cotton, and garlic. While L. taurica can infect many different plants it is actually very host specific. Different races of L. taurica can only infect certain crops, and even specific cultivars within the same crop. An accurate way to describe its host specificity is that this disease is, “a composite species consisting of many host-specific races." Symptoms of Onion Powdery Mildew (OPM) are usually seen as circular or oblong lesions that are 5 to 20 mm and have a chlorotic or necrotic appearance. The lesions appear on older leaves before the bulb of the onion begins to form, but also can occur on the younger leaves towards the end of the season. As the disease progresses signs of OPM can also be seen. On the lesions white mycelium can be found with conidiophores bearing either lanceolate or rounded condia.	 tomato Oidiopsis sicula

The asexual life cycle of Phytophthora infestans is characterized by alternating phases of hyphal growth, sporulation, sporangia germination (either through zoospore release or direct germination, i.e. germ tube emergence from the sporangium), and the re-establishment of hyphal growth. There is also a sexual cycle, which occurs when isolates of opposite mating type (A1 and A2, see § Mating types below) meet. Hormonal communication triggers the formation of the sexual spores, called oospores. The different types of spores play major roles in the dissemination and survival of P. infestans. Sporangia are spread by wind or water and enable the movement of P. infestans  between different host plants. The zoospores released from sporangia are biflagellated and chemotactic, allowing further movement of P. infestans on water films found on leaves or soils. Both sporangia and zoospores are short-lived, in contrast to oospores which can persist in a viable form for many years.People can observe Phytophthora infestans produce dark green, then brown then black spots on the surface of potato leaves and stems, often near the tips or edges, where water or dew collects. The sporangia and sporangiophores appear white on the lower surface of the foliage. As for tuber blight, the white mycelium often shows on the tubers' surface.Under ideal conditions, P. infestans completes its life cycle on potato or tomato foliage in about five days. Sporangia develop on the leaves, spreading through the crop when temperatures are above 10 °C (50 °F) and humidity is over 75–80% for 2 days or more. Rain can wash spores into the soil where they infect young tubers, and the spores can also travel long distances on the wind. The early stages of blight are easily missed. Symptoms include the appearance of dark blotches on leaf tips and plant stems. White mold will appear under the leaves in humid conditions and the whole plant may quickly collapse. Infected tubers develop grey or dark patches that are reddish brown beneath the skin, and quickly decay to a foul-smelling mush caused by the infestation of secondary soft bacterial rots. Seemingly healthy tubers may rot later when in store.P. infestans survives poorly in nature apart from on its plant hosts. Under most conditions, the hyphae and asexual sporangia can survive for only brief periods in plant debris or soil, and are generally killed off during frosts or very warm weather. The exceptions involve oospores, and hyphae present within tubers. The persistence of viable pathogen within tubers, such as those that are left in the ground after the previous year's harvest or left in cull piles is a major problem in disease management. In particular, volunteer plants sprouting from infected tubers are thought to be a major source of inoculum (or propagules) at the start of a growing season. This can have devastating effects by destroying entire crops.	 tomato Phytophthora infestans

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 tomato Phytophthora nicotianae var. parasitica

Phytophthora nicotianae has a broad host range comprising 255 genera from 90 families. Hosts include tobacco, onion, tomato, ornamentals, cotton, pepper, and citrus plants. This pathogen can cause root rot, crown rot, fruit rot, leaf infection, and stem infection. Root rot symptoms are observed on tobacco, poinsettia, tomato, pineapple, watermelon, and  as well as African violet. Fruit rots occur on tomato, papaya, and eggplant. Onion shows a leaf and stem infection. In tobacco Black Shank affects the roots and basal stem area, but all parts of the plant can become infected. Damping off symptoms can be observed in young seedlings. The first above ground symptom that will be observed is the wilting of plants, which leads to stunting. Roots will be blackened and decayed. In final stages of the disease the stem begins to turn black, hence the name Black Shank. As this happens, tobacco leaves turn brown and become not marketable. Another symptom is disk-like appearance of the pith, although this is not a definitive symptom as it may also be the result of lightning strikes. On onion it causes the disease known as Phytophthora neck and bulb rot. Different stages of onion may be affected. Initially, tips of newly infected plants start to yellow and dry followed by softening of the "neck" of the plants that eventually fall over. Infected leaves may show grey lesions. Roots may become necrotic in late disease.	 tomato Phytophthora parasitica

Phytoplasmas can infect and cause various symptoms in more than 700 plant species. One characteristic symptom is abnormal floral organ development including phyllody (i.e., the production of leaf-like structures in place of flowers) and virescence (i.e., the development of green flowers attributable to a loss of pigment by petal cells). Phytoplasma-harboring flowering plants may nevertheless be sterile. The expression of genes involved in maintaining the apical meristem or in the development of floral organs is altered in the morphologically affected floral organs of phytoplasma-infected plants.A phytoplasma infection often triggers leaf yellowing, probably due to the presence of phytoplasma cells in phloem, which can affect phloem function and carbohydrate transport, inhibit chlorophyll biosynthesis, and trigger chlorophyll breakdown. These symptoms may be attributable to stress caused by the infection rather than a specific pathogenetic process.Many phytoplasma-infected plants develop a bushy or "witches' broom" appearance due to changes in their normal growth patterns. Most plants exhibit apical dominance but infection can trigger the proliferation of axillary (side) shoots and a reduction in internode size. Such symptoms are actually useful in the commercial production of poinsettias. Infection triggers more axillary shoot production; the poinsettia plants thus produce more than a single flower.	 tomato Phytoplasma

Different strains of PSTVd exist and symptoms range from mild to severe. Mild strains produce no obvious symptoms. Symptoms in severe strains are dependent on environmental conditions and are most severe in hot conditions. Symptoms may be mild in initial infections but become progressively worse in the following generations. Common symptoms of severe infections include color changes in the foliage, smaller leaves and spindle-like elongation. Sprouting also occurs at a slower rate than in unaffected potatoes. Infected tomatoes are slower to show symptoms which include stunted growth with a ‘bunchy top’ caused by shortened inter-nodes. Leaves become yellow or purple and often become curled and twisted. Necrosis eventually occurs in the veins of the bottom and middle leaves and the top leaves decrease in size. Fruit ripening is also affected leading to hard, small, dark green tomatoes.Long distance spread of PSTVd usually occurs via infected seeds but transmission via aphids (Myzus persicae) also occurs but only in the presence of PLRV (potato leaf roll virus). Mechanical transmission also occurs once it has been introduced to an area.	 tomato Potato spindle tuber viroid

PVY belongs to the genus Potyvirus, the largest genus of plant viruses and possibly the most destructive one in potato crops. The genus includes more than 200 species that bring about significant losses in the agricultural arena. PVY infects many economically important plant species. These include potato (Solanum tuberosum), tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum), tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) and pepper (Capsicum spp.). The level of damage to crop is determined by the strain of PVY infecting the plants, the viral load, the time at which infection occurs as well as the tolerance the host possesses toward the virus. Resistance to PVY infection by hosts is low in many cases. Infection of a potato field with PVY may ultimately result in 10-100% loss in yield.It has been shown that the PVY has different isolates according to the symptoms they induce in various potato plant species. Extensive biological, serological and molecular variability of PVY isolates makes the classification of isolates as particular strains particularly difficult. Occurrence of a variety of symptoms and the emergence of the necrotic PVYNTN has led to a search for more reliable classification tools than simple serological identification. Traditionally three chief strains of PVY are recognized: PVYC, PVYN and PVYO. PVYC, originally known as Potato Virus C, was the first to be recognized and was identified in the 1930s. PVYC induces hypersensitive responses in a wide range of potato cultivars. These reactions include the formation of mild mosaic patterns or stipple streak. Unlike the other strains of PVY, some PVYC strains are non-aphid transmissible. Previous studies by Visser et al. did not identify any of the local isolates as being PVYC but it has been reported to occur to in South Africa. A second strain of PVY is PVYN. This strain was described in tobacco plants growing close to potato plants. PVYN results in leaf necrosis and mild or even no damage to the tubers. The ordinary strain of PVY is denoted as PVYO. Infection of a potato plant with the PVYO strain results in mild tuber damage and does not cause leaf necrosis. Both PVYN and PVYO are aphid transmissible and occur in South Africa. In Europe these two strains have been shown to have recombined to form PVYNTN. The PVYNTN has been accredited with the ability to induce potato tuber necrotic ringspot disease (PTNRD). Tubers damaged by PTNRD become unmarketable and infection by PVYNTN thus results in a larger economic impact than infection by the other strains.	 tomato Potato virus Y

The most susceptible host to Pyrenochaeta lycopersici is tomato, but the pathogen can also infect and cause damage to members of the families of Solanaceae and Cucurbitaceae such as pepper, eggplant, cucumber and melon. Wilt, stunting and lack of vigor can be observed as the primary symptoms, and infected leaves can possibly show interveinal chlorosis that leads to premature defoliation. The distinctive characteristic of P. lycopersici is that it causes brown lesions on the surface of medium roots which are known as a brown root rot. In addition, the pathogen produces corky lesions on the large roots while rotting can be observed in the small roots. Once the infection progresses, these lesions become wrinkled and dark brown, making cracks that prevent hosts from acquiring nutrients and water. These results are often followed by the root failure which causes the reduction of tomato yield.	 tomato Pyrenochaeta lycopersici

Pythium aphanidermatum is responsible for pre- and post-emergence damping off.  Pre-emergence damping off is when the seed is infected prior to germination.  This can result in poor or no germination, and is observable as a browning or rotting of the seed.  Post-emergence damping off takes place after germination and results in a thinning, water-soaked stem near the plant collar, which eventually causes the collapse of the plant.  P. aphanidermatum can also cause root rot.  Symptoms of root rot include stunted growth, chlorotic leaves, leaf drop, and wilting.  The infection begins at the root tip, and can cause the infected region to lose its protective outer layer, exposing the inner root to other pathogens	 tomato Pythium aphanidermatum

Pythium myriotylum is a causal agent of soft root rot in economically important crops including peanuts, tomato, rye, wheat, oats, cucumber, soybean, sorghum, tobacco, cabbage, and maize. Pythium myriotylum causes pre-emergence damping off, it infects the seed and causes it to rot before plant growth.  This causes the plant seedling to become shriveled, soft, and brown. In a study done on soybeans, some symptoms that were seen were rotting of roots, diseased seedlings in the field, plus rotting and blight of seedlings. Pythium myriotylum can also cause post-emergence damping off in peanuts, resulting in discoloration of the seedlings and roots along with a water-soaked appearance in certain areas, these symptoms usually result in the death of the seedlings.	 tomato Pythium myriotylum

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 tomato Rhizoctonia solani

S. sclerotiorum is among the most omnivorous of plant pathogens and so would not make a good mycoherbicide. Economically significant hosts include Vicia faba, for which Lithourgidis et al have done extensive work over the years. Common hosts of white mold are herbaceous, succulent plants, particularly flowers and vegetables. Sunflowers are common hosts for white mold. It can also affect woody ornamentals occasionally, usually on juvenile tissue. White mold can affect their hosts at any stage of growth, including seedlings, mature plants, and harvested products. It can usually be found on tissues with high water content and in close proximity to the soil. One of the first symptoms noticed is an obvious area of white, fluffy mycelial growth. Usually this is preceded by pale to dark brown lesions on the stem at the soil line. The mycelium then cover this necrotic area. Once the xylem is affected, other symptoms occur higher up in the plant. These can include chlorosis, wilting, leaf drop, and death quickly follows. On fruits, the initial dark lesions occur on the tissue that comes in contact with the soil. Next, white fungal mycelium covers the fruit and it decays. This can occur when the fruit is in the field or when in storage.	 tomato Sclerotinia sclerotiorum

Septoria lycopersici infects the tomato leaves via the stomata and also by direct penetration of epidermal cells. Symptoms generally include circular or angular lesions most commonly found on the older, lower leaves of the plant. The lesions are generally 2-5mm in diameter and have a greyish center with brown margins. The lesions are distinct characteristics of S. lycopersici and contain pycnidia in the center which aid when trying to identify the pathogen. Pycnidia can be found in the center of the said lesions. Pycnidia are fruiting bodies of the fungus. When the lesions become numerous often the leaves turn yellow, then brown, shriveling up and eventually dropping off the plant altogether.	 tomato Septoria lycopersici

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 tomato Thanatephorus cucumeris

The foliage of affected tomato plants shows mottling, with alternating yellowish and darker green areas, the latter often appearing thicker and raised giving a blister-like appearance. The leaves tend to be fern-like in appearance with pointed tips and younger leaves may be twisted. The fruit may be distorted, yellow blotches and necrotic spots may occur on both ripe and green fruit and there may be internal browning of the fruit wall. In young plants, the infection reduces the set of fruit and may cause distortions and blemishes. The entire plant may be dwarfed and the flowers discoloured. Environmental conditions influence the symptoms. These include temperature, day length and light intensity as well as the variety, the age of the plant at infection and the virulence of the strain of ToMV.	 tomato ToMV

Symptoms seen on plants infected with this virus can vary depending on the plant. However typical symptoms include vein clearing, mottling, and necrotic lines or etching.  Symptoms can occur on leaves and fruit and the plants can become stunted.Like other potyviruses, TEV makes viral inclusions that can be seen in the light microscope if properly stained.  This particular potyvirus makes two kinds of inclusions that can be diagnostic in a known host.  One of the inclusions is the cylindrical inclusions found in the cytoplasm of infected cells and the second inclusion is found in the nucleus. Neither inclusion type stains in the nucleic acid stain (AzureA). (Inclusions of tobacco etch virus in various hosts.)	 tomato Tobacco etch virus

Like other plant pathogenic viruses, TMV has a very wide host range and has different effects depending on the host being infected. Tobacco mosaic virus has been known to cause a production loss for flue cured tobacco of up to two percent in North Carolina. It is known to infect members of nine plant families, and at least 125 individual species, including tobacco, tomato, pepper (all members of the useful Solanaceae), cucumbers, a number of ornamental flowers, and beans including Phaseolus vulgaris and Vigna unguiculata. There are many different strains. The first symptom of this virus disease is a light green coloration between the veins of young leaves. This is followed quickly by the development of a "mosaic" or mottled pattern of light and dark green areas in the leaves. Rugosity may also be seen where the infected plant leaves display small localized random wrinkles. These symptoms develop quickly and are more pronounced on younger leaves. Its infection does not result in plant death, but if infection occurs early in the season, plants are stunted. Lower leaves are subjected to "mosaic burn"  especially during periods of hot and dry weather. In these cases, large dead areas develop in the leaves. This constitutes one of the most destructive phases of Tobacco mosaic virus infection. Infected leaves may be crinkled, puckered, or elongated. However, if TMV infects crops like grape and apple, it is almost symptomless. TMV is able  to infect and complete its replication cycle in a plant pathogenic fungus,TMV is able to enter and replicate in cells of C. acutatum, C. clavatum, and C. theobromicola, which may not be an exception, although it has neither been found nor probably searched for in nature.	 tomato Tobacco mosaic virus

Different strains of PSTVd exist and symptoms range from mild to severe. Mild strains produce no obvious symptoms. Symptoms in severe strains are dependent on environmental conditions and are most severe in hot conditions. Symptoms may be mild in initial infections but become progressively worse in the following generations. Common symptoms of severe infections include color changes in the foliage, smaller leaves and spindle-like elongation. Sprouting also occurs at a slower rate than in unaffected potatoes. Infected tomatoes are slower to show symptoms which include stunted growth with a ‘bunchy top’ caused by shortened inter-nodes. Leaves become yellow or purple and often become curled and twisted. Necrosis eventually occurs in the veins of the bottom and middle leaves and the top leaves decrease in size. Fruit ripening is also affected leading to hard, small, dark green tomatoes.Long distance spread of PSTVd usually occurs via infected seeds but transmission via aphids (Myzus persicae) also occurs but only in the presence of PLRV (potato leaf roll virus). Mechanical transmission also occurs once it has been introduced to an area.	 tomato Tomato bunchy top

The foliage of affected tomato plants shows mottling, with alternating yellowish and darker green areas, the latter often appearing thicker and raised giving a blister-like appearance. The leaves tend to be fern-like in appearance with pointed tips and younger leaves may be twisted. The fruit may be distorted, yellow blotches and necrotic spots may occur on both ripe and green fruit and there may be internal browning of the fruit wall. In young plants, the infection reduces the set of fruit and may cause distortions and blemishes. The entire plant may be dwarfed and the flowers discoloured. Environmental conditions influence the symptoms. These include temperature, day length and light intensity as well as the variety, the age of the plant at infection and the virulence of the strain of ToMV.	 tomato Tomato mosaic virus

TSWV infects a variety of hosts, contributing to its global economic impact on crops. There are over a thousand different hosts for TSWV. The host range of TSWV includes agronomically important crops like tomatoes and tobacco. The symptoms of TSWV vary from host to host. There is also variability of symptoms within a single type of host due to the age of the plant, nutrition and the environment (especially temperature). Common symptoms include stunting, ringspots on fruit and necrosis of leaves. There are many different strains of TSWV, and differences in symptoms may also be attributed to the differences in the number of strains present.	 tomato Tomato spotted wilt virus

There are many strains of Verticillium dahliae which are categorized into vegetative compatibility groups (VCG). These groups comprise strains that are able to exchange genetic material via anastomosis. Each VCG affects a few or only one host and the virulence of the pathogen varies by host. While individual V. dahliae strains are relatively host specific, as a species it has a wide range.Verticillium dahliae has a very wide host range, affecting over 300 plant species. Some susceptible crops include Brussels sprouts, cabbage, eggplant, cucumbers, mint, pepper, potatoes, pumpkin, spinach, tomato, watermelon, honeydew, and cantaloupe. Of these, tomato, potato, and eggplant have resistant or tolerant varieties.Symptoms of this disease are seen throughout the plant. Leaves may have abnormal coloration, necrotic areas, wilt, and/or fall off the plant. The stem may have discolored vascular tissue, exhibit rosetting (shortened internodes of the plant caused by reduced growth, resulting in a rosette-like appearance), and/or be stunted. Early senescence and dieback may also occur.Microsclerotia can be seen under a lens as small black structures in the vasculature of living and dead plants. This feature can be used to distinguish V. dahliae from V. albo-atrum, the other verticillium wilt pathogen.	 tomato Verticillium dahliae

Verticillium spp. attack a very large host range including more than 350 species of vegetables, fruit trees, flowers, field crops, and shade or forest trees.  Most vegetable species have some susceptibility, so it has a very wide host range.  A list of known hosts is at the bottom of this page.The signs are similar to most wilts with a few specifics to Verticillium.  Wilt itself is the most common sign, with wilting of the stem and leaves occurring due to the blockage of the xylem vascular tissues and therefore reduced water and nutrient flow.  In small plants and seedlings, Verticillium can quickly kill the plant while in larger, more developed plants the severity can vary.  Some times only one side of the plant will appear infected because once in the vascular tissues, the disease migrates mostly upward and not as much radially in the stem.  Other symptoms include stunting, chlorosis or yellowing of the leaves, necrosis or tissue death, and defoliation.  Internal vascular tissue discoloration might be visible when the stem is cut.In Verticillium, the signs and effects will often only be on the lower or outer parts of plants or will be localized to only a few branches of a tree.  In older plants, the infection can cause death, but often, especially with trees, the plant will be able to recover, or at least continue living with the infection.  The severity of the infection plays a large role in how severe the signs are and how quickly they develop.	 tomato Verticillium wilt

As with all plant viruses, the symptoms exhibited on an infected plant depend on the plant species. Symptoms of BiMoV in various hosts have been described as mild to severe mottling, slight to severe leaf distortion, vein clearing, and stunting. It can cause flower break symptoms and flower abortion in some hosts and at least one host has been found that shows no visible symptoms.Symptoms of Bidens mottle virus on Lark Daisy (Centratherum punctatum).Symptoms of Bidens mottle virus in Faba bean (Vicia faba).	 verbena Bidens mottle virus

INSV has a wide host range and can be found in over 300 plant species including weeds, fruits, vegetables and ornamental crops. Of these, the most severely affected include tomatoes, lettuce, pepper and peppermint as well as most all ornamentals. Symptoms of infection include a downward curling of the leaves, leaf tip dieback, stunting, necrosis of growing leaf tips, sunken ‘chicken pox-like’ spots on leaves (often with a surrounding halo), stem death and yellowing.  Since these symptoms are so generic, extreme caution must be taken when introducing new plants to your greenhouse. Infected plants can not be cured and not all hosts display visible symptoms Western Flower Thrips are extremely hard to remove from their host plants, as they often dig themselves deep into blossoms, buds and other areas hard to reach with insecticides. So, even if plants are sprayed regularly with insecticide, INSV and other insect vectored viruses can not always be ruled out when forming diagnosis.Temperature and host both play an important factor when discussing the symptoms which an INSV infected plant will display. When New Guinea Impatiens are cultivated in an environment varying between 75 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit the host plant will be highly symptomatic. However, when New Guinea Impatiens are grown in an environment just 10 degrees cooler it is unlikely for there to be any observable symptoms of disease.	 verbena Impatiens necrotic spot virus

Powdery mildew is manifest on the plant by white powdery fungal growth on the surface of the leaf, usually both sides of the leaf show fungal growth. The host tissue is frequently stunted, distorted, discolored, and scarred. The fruit of infected plants are usually smaller and the flavor is affected negatively, as fewer sugars and solids are stored in the fruit.	 verbena Podosphaera xanthii

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 verbena Rhizoctonia solani

TSWV infects a variety of hosts, contributing to its global economic impact on crops. There are over a thousand different hosts for TSWV. The host range of TSWV includes agronomically important crops like tomatoes and tobacco. The symptoms of TSWV vary from host to host. There is also variability of symptoms within a single type of host due to the age of the plant, nutrition and the environment (especially temperature). Common symptoms include stunting, ringspots on fruit and necrosis of leaves. There are many different strains of TSWV, and differences in symptoms may also be attributed to the differences in the number of strains present.	 verbena Tomato spotted wilt virus

Successful inoculation of A. triticina has been repeatedly confirmed in Triticum turgidum subsp. Durum (durum wheat) and Triticum aestivum (common wheat, bread wheat) with bread wheat varieties showing more severe infection. Barley, sorghum, triticale, oats, rye, and millet have all been experimentally colonized, but field-level infection is restricted to varieties of durum and bread wheat. Infection will only occur on hosts older than three weeks with symptoms appearing at 7–8 weeks of age.Lesions will start as oval-shaped scars on the lower leaves and infect more leaves as the plant grows. Later in the season, the lesions enlarge and coalesce, becoming darker and forming chlorotic margins around the necrotic lesions. If the infection becomes sufficiently severe and widespread, the entire field will exhibit a burnt appearance. Depending on the initial concentration of inoculum and environmental conditions, infection can spread to the leaf sheath, stem, awns, and glumes. Spike infections lead to infected seed. These seeds may exhibit no symptoms, or they may become brown and shriveled. In either case, they will contain the disease-spreading agent successfully to the next season.In addition to symptoms derived from nutrient extraction, A. triticina releases several nonspecific toxins, often resulting in chlorotic leaf flag streaks.Lesions are not easily differentiated from those of other leaf blight pathogens. However, they will have black powder of conidia and not pycnidia or perithecia common to some leaf lesion fungi, which distinguishes it from many ascomycete pathogens of wheat and cereal grains.	 wheat Alternaria triticina

Anaphylaxis typically presents many different symptoms over minutes or hours with an average onset of 5 to 30 minutes if exposure is intravenous and up to 2 hours if from eating food. The most common areas affected include: skin (80–90%), respiratory (70%), gastrointestinal (30–45%), heart and vasculature (10–45%), and central nervous system (10–15%) with usually two or more being involved.	 wheat Anaphylaxis

Aster yellows affects a long list of plant species including native plants, annual flowering plants, ornamentals, weeds, and vegetables crops. The largest family affected is the Asteraceae, and ornamental plants commonly infected are asters, marigolds, coreopsis, sunflowers, and purple coneflower.  Regarding vegetable crops, onion, lettuce, celery, and carrot are affected with the latter suffering the greatest losses.The range of characteristic symptoms varies by the phytoplasma strain, timing of infection, plant species, temperature, age, and size of the plant. The symptoms can be mistaken for herbicide damage or virus symptoms.  They include vein clearing until the entire leaf becomes chlorotic, stunting, deformation, virescence (greening of flowers), phyllody (development of leaf-like flower petals), reddening of foliage, reduced root system, and sterility.  Aster yellows does not typically kill perennial host plants. The symptoms caused by the disease are exacerbated by hot climates while some plants in cooler climates may be asymptomatic.Characteristic symptoms specific to the carrot include initial vein clearing and chlorosis, followed by production of many adventitious shoots, with the tops looking like a witches’-broom.  The internodes of such shoots are short as are the leaf petioles.  Young leaves are smaller and dry up while the petioles of older leaves twist and break off.  Any remaining older leaves turn bronze or red late in the season.  Floral parts are deformed and roots are smaller, abnormally shaped, and have woolly secondary roots.  The carrot roots are predisposed to soft rots in the field and storage and taste unpleasant to the consumer.	 wheat Aster yellows

Barley stripe mosaic virus has a narrow host range.  Horedum vulgare, commonly known as barley, is the main host for the virus.   BSMV can also infect wheat, Triticum aestivum.  Very rarely, BSMV can be seen in wild oats along with rye, maize, rice, sorghum, and millet.  In experimental conditions, spinach, beetroot, and tobacco were able to be infected. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) is a useful tool that can differentiate between similar strains of barley stripe mosaic virus and provide quantitative results.  ELISA works by using antibodies that are specific for a particular virus and the antibody-antigen interaction is mediated by a solid surface, which is usually a  polystyrene multiwell plate.Common symptoms of BSMV are yellow to white mottling, spotting and streaking, necrosis and severe mosaic on leaves.  Stunting is also very common.  Symptoms can vary based on virus strain, host plant and environmental conditions.  Symptoms are more prevalent in warm temperatures.    Plants grown from infected seeds are severely stunted or could even die before emergence in very susceptible hosts varieties.  Experimentally infected plants took 4–5 days for chlorotic symptoms to appear.Symptoms for BSMV are similar to barley stripe disease, a fungal disease caused by Pyrenophora graminea, though the two are caused by completely different pathogens and should be treated differently.	 wheat Barley stripe mosaic virus

Triticum spp. (wheat) is the only host of B. g. f. sp. tritici. Signs on the foliage of wheat are white, powdery mycelium and conidia. As the disease progresses, the patches turn gray and small dark black or brown cleistothecia form in the mycelium mass. Symptoms progress from lower to upper leaves. Symptoms of powdery mildew are chlorotic areas surrounding the infected areas. The lower leaf surface corresponding to the mycelial mat will also show chlorosis. Lower leaves are commonly the most infected because of higher humidity around them.	 wheat Blumeria graminis

BMV commonly infects Bromus inermis (see Bromus) and other grasses, can be found almost anywhere wheat is grown. It is also one of the few grass viruses that infects dicotyledonous plants, such as soybean; however, it primarily infects monocotyledonous plants, such as barley and others in the family Gramineae. The diagnostic species of this disease is maize, where seedlings show a variety of symptoms of this diseases, (dpvweb.net). Its propagation species is barley, which displays a mild mosaic. The assay species of this disease is Chenopodium Hybridum, (dpvweb.net). The symptoms of BMV are similar to most mosaic viruses. The symptoms consist of stunted growth, lesions, mosaic leaves, and death, (researchgate.net). These symptoms generally appear around 10 days after germination of the host plant. The symptoms of this disease affect maize and barley plants the most.In 2015, it was found that BMV had coinfected Triticale with Wheat Streak Mosaic Virus. This was the first report of coinfection between those two viruses and raises and the first report of BMV infecting Triticale. This raises questions on whether or not the two viruses share a common vector and how they interact with each other. They are currently researching further into this occurrence (K. Trzmiel, 2015).	 wheat Brome mosaic virus

When the infection occurs in an early stage of the tomato plant there may be wilting on leaves because Clavibacter michiganensis subsp. michiganensis enter the plant by wounds, including root wounds, and if the bacterium gets to the xylem then a systemic infection is likely that may plug the xylem vessels. The wilting may only show on one side of the leaf and may recover during cooler periods. The entire system of xylem within the plant allows the bacteria to form titers of up to 109 bacteria per gram of plant tissue. Wilting may eventually spread to all leaves and these leaves, along with their petioles, may also show distorted, curled growth. One way to diagnose a severe vascular infection is to pinch the stem. If the epidermis and outer layer of the cortex separate from the inner stem then there is severe vascular infection. These exposed parts will have a soapy feel. Canker lesions, though rare, may develop on the stem. These cankers are necrotic regions where the epidermis is gone. As the bacteria continues its colonization, the canker will deepen and expand. In terms of fruit development, tomatoes may fail to develop altogether or may look marbled because they are ripening unevenly.If infection occurs at a late stage of plant development, plants are able to survive and generate fruits. However, the plant may appear stressed rather than wilted and may develop white interveinal areas that will develop into brown necrotic tissue. Often the seeds are infected as well.Superficial infections increase the risk of epidemics. They occur when the bacteria multiply on the epidermis of the host, enter through stomata, or enter through a very shallow wound that does not allow the pathogen to reach the xylem tissue. The host may look like it was rubbed with cornmeal or coarse flour but it is actually a series of blisters that me be raised or sunken and appear white to pale orange. The most common leaf symptom is a dark brown spot surrounded by a sort of orange-like area on the edge of the leaf. Fruits may develop "bird's eye" spotting, which are pale green to white raised pustules that have a brown center and chlorotic halo. Pictures of these symptoms are available at the cited reference.However, latent infections are common.The Clavibacter michiganensis subsp. michiganensis wild type strain NCPPB382 carries two plasmids associated with virulence: pCM1 and pCM2. The avirulent strain, CMM100, does not contain these plasmids. Strains that carried one of the two plasmids were found to be virulent but wilting symptoms were delayed. The virulent and avirulent strains produced the same amount of exopolysaccharides, suggesting that EPS does not play a significant role in pathogenicity.	 wheat Clavibacter michiganensis

The classic symptoms of untreated coeliac disease include pale, loose, or greasy stools (steatorrhoea), and weight loss or failure to gain weight. Other common symptoms may be subtle or primarily occur in organs other than the bowel itself. It is also possible to have coeliac disease without any of the classic symptoms at all. This has been shown to comprise at least 43% of presentations in children. Further, many adults with subtle disease may only present with fatigue, anaemia or low bone mass. Many undiagnosed individuals who consider themselves asymptomatic are in fact not, but rather have become accustomed to living in a state of chronically compromised health. Indeed, after starting a gluten-free diet and subsequent improvement becomes evident, such individuals are often able to retrospectively recall and recognise prior symptoms of their untreated disease that they had mistakenly ignored.	 wheat Coeliac disease

Plants with common bunt may be moderately stunted but infected plants cannot be easily recognized until near maturity and even then it is seldom conspicuous.  After initial infection, the entire kernel is converted into a sorus consisting of a dark brown to black mass of teliospores covered by a modified periderm, which is thin and papery. The sorus is light to dark brown and is called a bunt ball. The bunt balls resemble wheat kernels but tend to be more spherical.  The bunted heads are slender, bluish-green and may stay greener longer than healthy heads.  The bunt balls change to a dull gray-brown at maturity, at which they become conspicuous. The fragile covering of the bunt balls are ruptured at harvest, producing clouds of spores. The spores have a fishy odor. Intact sori can also be found among harvested grain.	 wheat Common bunt (wheat)

Small, oval, brown lesions on the roots, lower leaf sheath and subcrown internode. As the disease progresses, lesions may elongate, coalesce and girdle the subcrown internode and may turn from brown to nearly black.	 wheat Common root rot (wheat)

Dermatitis herpetiformis is characterized by intensely itchy, chronic papulovesicular eruptions, usually distributed symmetrically on extensor surfaces (buttocks, back of neck, scalp, elbows, knees, back, hairline, groin, or face).: 616   The blisters vary in size from very small up to 1 cm across. The condition is extremely itchy, and the desire to scratch may be overwhelming. This sometimes causes the affected person to scratch the blisters off before they are examined by a physician. Intense itching or burning sensations are sometimes felt before the blisters appear in a particular area.The signs and symptoms of DH typically appear around 30 to 40 years of age, although all ages may be affected. Although the first signs and symptoms of dermatitis herpetiformis are intense itching and burning, the first visible signs are the small papules or vesicles that usually look like red bumps or blisters. The rash rarely occurs on other mucous membranes, excepting the mouth or lips. The symptoms range in severity from mild to serious, but they are likely to disappear if gluten ingestion is avoided and appropriate treatment is administered.Dermatitis herpetiformis symptoms are chronic, and they tend to come and go, mostly in short periods of time in response to the amount of gluten ingested. Sometimes, these symptoms may be accompanied by symptoms of coeliac disease, which typically include abdominal pain, bloating or loose stool, weight loss, and fatigue. However, individuals with DH often have no gastrointestinal symptoms even if they have associated intestinal damage.The rash caused by dermatitis herpetiformis forms and disappears in three stages. In the first stage, the patient may notice a slight discoloration of the skin at the site where the lesions appear. In the next stage, the skin lesions transform into obvious vesicles and papules that are likely to occur in groups. Healing of the lesions is the last stage of the development of the symptoms, usually characterized by a change in the skin color. This may result in areas of the skin turning darker or lighter than the color of the skin on the rest of the body. Because of the intense itching, patients usually scratch, which may lead to the formation of crusts.	 wheat Dermatitis herpetiformis

Tan spot is found primarily on wheat, but is also found to infect other cereals and grasses including triticale, barley, and rye, but are less frequently affected. Other grass species effected by the pathogen include Siberian wheat grass, sand bluestem, meadow brome, sheep fescue, June grass, little bluestem, green foxtail, needle and thread, and tall wheatgrass. While these are not necessarily agriculture crop hosts such as wheat, the pathogen is able to form and survive on many grass hosts, which can eventually venture into wheat fields. Other important grass susceptible hosts include smooth brome which can be found in pastures, as well as quack grass that is found in the environment and considered a weed in many agricultural crops. Lesions typically appear on both upper and lower leaf surfaces, and initially are tan to brown specks. Eventually, the tan to brown specks expand to larger irregular, oval, lens-shaped, ellipse, tan blotches with a yellow ring around them. The yellow ring is often referred to as a halo, yellow discoloration as chlorosis, and browning/death of leaf tissue as necrosis. The development of a dark brown to black spot in the center the lesion is characteristic of the disease. If warmer temperatures and moist conditions persist, spores known as conidia will move up plant as secondary inoculum and can also infect head/spikes. Symptoms on the head are indistinct, but can cause brownish glumes, and grains can have a reddish appearance similar to the pathogen Fusarium.	 wheat Drechslera tritici-repentis

Triticum spp. (wheat) is the only host of B. g. f. sp. tritici. Signs on the foliage of wheat are white, powdery mycelium and conidia. As the disease progresses, the patches turn gray and small dark black or brown cleistothecia form in the mycelium mass. Symptoms progress from lower to upper leaves. Symptoms of powdery mildew are chlorotic areas surrounding the infected areas. The lower leaf surface corresponding to the mycelial mat will also show chlorosis. Lower leaves are commonly the most infected because of higher humidity around them.	 wheat Erysiphe graminis

The eye-shaped elliptical lesions which give eyespot its name form on lower stem bases near to the soil surface. The lesions are straw yellow, often with black pupil-like dots in the centre, and are bordered by greenish-brown to dark-brown rings. In cases of severe infection stems are weakened at the point of infection which makes the host susceptible to lodging. This symptom is associated with the W-type (Oculimacula yallundae). Alternatively in other cases of severe infection the nutrient and water supply to the plant is disturbed, resulting in low quality grain and whitehead production due to early maturation. This is associated with the R-type (Oculimacula acuformis) 	 wheat Eyespot (wheat)

The pathogen is capable of causing a variety of diseases: head blight or 'scab' on wheat (Triticum), barley (Hordeum), rice (Oryza), oats (Avena), and Gibberella stalk and ear rot disease on maize (Zea). Additionally, the fungus may infect other plant species without causing any disease symptoms.MaizeIn Gibberella stalk rot, the leaves on early-infected plants will turn a dull greyish-green, and the lower internodes will soften and turn a tan to dark-brown. A pink-red discoloration occurs within the stalks of diseased tissue. Shredding of the pith may reveal small, round, black perithecia on the stalks. Gibberella (red) ear rot can have a reddish mold that is often at the ear tip. The infection occurs by colonizing corn silk and symptoms first occur at the ear's apex. The white mycelium turns from pink to red over time, eventually covering the entire ear. Ears that become infected early don't fully develop the reddish mold near the ear tip, as the mold grows between the husks and ear.RiceGibberella zeae can turn affected seeds red and cause brown discoloration in certain areas on the seed or the entire seed surface. The surface of husks develop white spots that later become yellow and salmon or carmine. Infected grains are light, shrunken and brittle. Stem nodes begin to rot and wilt, eventually causing them to turn black and disintegrate when they are infected by the fungal pathogen.WheatBrown, dark purple-black necrotic lesions will form on the outer surface of the spikelets, what the wheat ear breaks up into. The lesions may be referred to as scabs, but this is not to be confused and associated with other scab diseases such as those with different host and pathogen. Head blight is visible before the spikes mature. Spikelets begin to appear water-soaked before the loss of chlorophyll, which gives a white straw color. Peduncles that are directly under the inflorescence can become discolored into a brown-purple color. Tissues of the inflorescence typically become blighted into a bleached tan appearance, and the grain within it atrophies. The awn will become deformed, twisted and curve in a downward direction.BarleyInfections on barley are not always visible in the field. Similar to wheat, infected spikelets show a browning or water-soaked appearance. The infected kernels display a tan to dark brown discoloration. During long periods of wetness, pink to salmon-orange spore masses can be seen on the infected spikelets and kernels. The cortical lesions of infected seeds become a reddish-brown in cool, moist soil. Warm soil can cause head blight to occur after emergence, and crown and basal culm rot can be observed in later plant development.	 wheat Fusarium graminearum

M. nivale can infect all cool-season turf grass species.  Annual bluegrass (Poa annua), perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne) and creeping bentgrass (Agrostis stolonifera) are more susceptible. In the fall, M.nivale infection begins as small, orange to red-brown spots, circular and only a few centimeters in diameter.  During the winter and into the spring seasons, well-defined, clustered, circular patches 10-20 cm in diameter, of necrotic leaf tissues form on mown turf.  Microdochium nivale is mostly seen on grasses mown at heights of three inches or greater. On taller grass, patches often lack a circular pattern that is seen in shorter mown grass. Pink snow mold patches usually follow drainage patterns since conidia spores are readily dislodged and transported by rainfall and water flowage.  Under prolonged cool and wet conditions, white-pink mycelium can be observed along the circumference of diseased patches.	 wheat Fusarium patch

Fusarium pseudograminearum has a limited host range, only infecting species of wheat and barley. F. pseudograminearum can infect seedlings, but can also infect the crowns of mature wheat hosts. Crown rot of wheat produces asexual structures called conidiospores, which are produced in sporodochium structures inside the stem of the infected host. As the conidiospores germinate and invade the xylem and pith of the stem, both the stem and crown develop a red-brown or white discoloration. The primary infection of the host’s xylem is thought to occur at the crown or lower sheath of the stem from stubble containing a spore and mycelial inoculum. The infection of the xylem leaves the tissue water-soaked and with a pink or salmon color. As the infection proliferates the crown then becomes punky and is ultimately dysfunctional.Due to the vast infection throughout the host, the plant's growth is stunted and will show incomplete grain fill. As well as infecting the xylem and pith of the host, F. pseudograminearum produces mycotoxins once it has fully been established. Mycotoxins are toxins produced by fungi that are harmful to animals and human if consumed. F. pseudograminearum produces the trichothecene mycotoxin deoxynivalenol, or DON, which spreads throughout the plant stem and builds up in the tissue. The production of DON can produce the formation of whiteheads, which are heads of grain that died prematurely. It is known that F. pseudograminearum does not infect the heads of the wheat, but the formation of the "whiteheads" is a secondary symptom of the buildup of the mycotoxin DON. The transport dysfunction occurring in the xylem and the buildup of DON will ultimately lead to death of the infected wheat plants.	 wheat Fusarium pseudograminearum

Gaeumannomyces tritici causes disease in the roots, crown, and stem base of wheat, barley, rye, along with several grasses such as Bromegrass, Quackgrass, and Bentgrass. Oats are the only cereal crops that are able to have resistance being naturally resistant. The majority of infected plants can withstand mild root infection and appear symptomless. There are also cases where entire fields can be affected, but typically premature death occurs in circular patches in the field. Infected plants are identifiable through stunting, mild chlorosis (yellowing), and a decreased number of tillers, which are additional stems that develop of the main shoot of the plant. When tillers die due to disease they are white, creating a "white-head" that can be described as a sterile environment that isn’t able to germinate. Signs include perithecia that are shown in infected root and stem tissues which are black in color. This blackening of the crown and stem base allow the plant to be easily pulled from the soil with no attached root system. Given its name "Take-all", it has been known to destroy entire stands of wheat.	 wheat Gaeumannomyces graminis var. tritici

The pathogen is capable of causing a variety of diseases: head blight or 'scab' on wheat (Triticum), barley (Hordeum), rice (Oryza), oats (Avena), and Gibberella stalk and ear rot disease on maize (Zea). Additionally, the fungus may infect other plant species without causing any disease symptoms.MaizeIn Gibberella stalk rot, the leaves on early-infected plants will turn a dull greyish-green, and the lower internodes will soften and turn a tan to dark-brown. A pink-red discoloration occurs within the stalks of diseased tissue. Shredding of the pith may reveal small, round, black perithecia on the stalks. Gibberella (red) ear rot can have a reddish mold that is often at the ear tip. The infection occurs by colonizing corn silk and symptoms first occur at the ear's apex. The white mycelium turns from pink to red over time, eventually covering the entire ear. Ears that become infected early don't fully develop the reddish mold near the ear tip, as the mold grows between the husks and ear.RiceGibberella zeae can turn affected seeds red and cause brown discoloration in certain areas on the seed or the entire seed surface. The surface of husks develop white spots that later become yellow and salmon or carmine. Infected grains are light, shrunken and brittle. Stem nodes begin to rot and wilt, eventually causing them to turn black and disintegrate when they are infected by the fungal pathogen.WheatBrown, dark purple-black necrotic lesions will form on the outer surface of the spikelets, what the wheat ear breaks up into. The lesions may be referred to as scabs, but this is not to be confused and associated with other scab diseases such as those with different host and pathogen. Head blight is visible before the spikes mature. Spikelets begin to appear water-soaked before the loss of chlorophyll, which gives a white straw color. Peduncles that are directly under the inflorescence can become discolored into a brown-purple color. Tissues of the inflorescence typically become blighted into a bleached tan appearance, and the grain within it atrophies. The awn will become deformed, twisted and curve in a downward direction.BarleyInfections on barley are not always visible in the field. Similar to wheat, infected spikelets show a browning or water-soaked appearance. The infected kernels display a tan to dark brown discoloration. During long periods of wetness, pink to salmon-orange spore masses can be seen on the infected spikelets and kernels. The cortical lesions of infected seeds become a reddish-brown in cool, moist soil. Warm soil can cause head blight to occur after emergence, and crown and basal culm rot can be observed in later plant development.	 wheat Gibberella zeae

G. graminicola is an anamorphic fungus which is identified as Colletotrichum graminicola in the teleomorphic phase. It is the anamorphic phase that causes anthracnose in many cereal species. While the main host of this disease is maize, it can also affect other cereals and grasses, such as sorghum, ryegrass, bluegrass, barley, wheat, and some cultivars of fescue where the production of fruiting bodies cause symptoms to appear in the host plant.  Corn anthracnose leaf blight is the most common stalk disease in maize and occurs most frequently in reduced-till or no-till fields.Symptoms can vary depending on which part of the growing season the corn is in.Early in the growing season, the main symptom is foliar leaf blight. This often appears as 1 inch (25 mm) long and 1⁄2 inch (13 mm) wide oval or spindle-shaped water-soaked lesions on the lower leaves of the plant. This tissue can become necrotic and has the potential to spread throughout the entire leaf, causing it to yellow and die. They are light brown in color, with margins that appear dark brown or purple. If this persists, black fruiting bodies will appear in the center of the lesion.The mid-season symptoms appear several weeks after corn produces tassels, when there will be a top die-back if the infection has spread throughout many parts of the plant. In this dieback, the entire plant will become necrotic and die, beginning at the tassel and working its way down the entire stalk to the lowest leaves.Late in the growing season, another major symptom of this disease appears: stalk rot. It can first be seen as a reflective black stripe on the internodes of the stalk, and can make the stalk soft, causing the plants to easily lodge in heavy precipitation or a wind event.	 wheat Glomerella graminicola

More than 250 symptoms of gluten sensitivity have been reported, including bloating, abdominal discomfort or pain, constipation and diarrhea. Sensitivity may also present with extraintestinal symptoms, including headache, "brain fog", tingling and/or numbness in hands and feet, fatigue, as well as muscular disturbances and bone or joint pain; also neuropsychiatric manifestations ("gluten-sensitive idiopathic neuropathies") have been reported on.	 wheat Gluten-related disorders

Karnal bunt attacks durum wheat, rye, and triticale, a hybrid of wheat and rye. Despite its preference for a common crop, Karnal bunt can be extremely difficult to diagnose in the field for many reasons. First, not all kernels on a plant head will be infected, and thus infected plants are not as readily identifiable. This distribution is the reason for Karnal bunt's being referred to as partial bunt. Another factor which makes Karnal bunt difficult to readily diagnose in the field is the fact that most infected kernels do not show symptoms prior to maturity.The disease produces dark color and a fishy smell on infected kernels. Usually only the germ end of the kernel will show symptoms, but occasionally the entire kernel may appear diseased. The darkening of the kernel is a result of the kernel tissue being converted in a teliospore mass by the fungus. Another symptom is referred to as the "canoe symptom" as in the process of replacing the healthy kernel with teliospores, the disease tends to hollow out host kernels, resulting in a canoe shape. While the dark teliospores of the fungus may be diagnostic, diagnosis of Karnal bunt poses the added difficulty of differentiating between Karnal bunt from other infections which also result in the aforementioned symptoms, such as black point, common bunt, and dwarf bunt.	 wheat Karnal bunt

 M. grisea is an ascomycete fungus. It is an extremely effective plant pathogen as it can reproduce both sexually and asexually to produce specialized infectious structures known as appressoria that infect aerial tissues and hyphae that can infect root tissues.Rice blast has been observed on rice strains M-201, M-202, M-204, M-205, M-103, M-104, S-102, L-204, Calmochi-101, with M-201 being the most vulnerable. Initial symptoms are white to gray-green lesions or spots with darker borders produced on all parts of the shoot, while older lesions are elliptical or spindle-shaped and whitish to gray with necrotic borders. Lesions may enlarge and coalesce to kill the entire leaf. Symptoms are observed on all above-ground parts of the plant. Lesions can be seen on the leaf collar, culm, culm nodes, and panicle neck node. Internodal infection of the culm occurs in a banded pattern. Nodal infection causes the culm to break at the infected node (rotten neck). It also affects reproduction by causing the host to produce fewer seeds. This is caused by the disease preventing maturation of the actual grain.	 wheat Magnaporthe grisea

Reported symptoms of NCGS are similar to those of celiac disease, with most patients reporting both gastrointestinal and non-gastrointestinal symptoms. In the "classical" presentation of NCGS, gastrointestinal symptoms are similar to those of irritable bowel syndrome, and are also not distinguishable from those of wheat allergy, but there is a different interval between exposure to wheat and onset of symptoms. Wheat allergy has a fast onset (from minutes to hours) after the consumption of food containing wheat and can be anaphylaxic.	 wheat Non-celiac gluten sensitivity

Triticum spp. (wheat) is the only host of B. g. f. sp. tritici. Signs on the foliage of wheat are white, powdery mycelium and conidia. As the disease progresses, the patches turn gray and small dark black or brown cleistothecia form in the mycelium mass. Symptoms progress from lower to upper leaves. Symptoms of powdery mildew are chlorotic areas surrounding the infected areas. The lower leaf surface corresponding to the mycelial mat will also show chlorosis. Lower leaves are commonly the most infected because of higher humidity around them.	 wheat Oidium monilioides

Phytoplasmas can infect and cause various symptoms in more than 700 plant species. One characteristic symptom is abnormal floral organ development including phyllody (i.e., the production of leaf-like structures in place of flowers) and virescence (i.e., the development of green flowers attributable to a loss of pigment by petal cells). Phytoplasma-harboring flowering plants may nevertheless be sterile. The expression of genes involved in maintaining the apical meristem or in the development of floral organs is altered in the morphologically affected floral organs of phytoplasma-infected plants.A phytoplasma infection often triggers leaf yellowing, probably due to the presence of phytoplasma cells in phloem, which can affect phloem function and carbohydrate transport, inhibit chlorophyll biosynthesis, and trigger chlorophyll breakdown. These symptoms may be attributable to stress caused by the infection rather than a specific pathogenetic process.Many phytoplasma-infected plants develop a bushy or "witches' broom" appearance due to changes in their normal growth patterns. Most plants exhibit apical dominance but infection can trigger the proliferation of axillary (side) shoots and a reduction in internode size. Such symptoms are actually useful in the commercial production of poinsettias. Infection triggers more axillary shoot production; the poinsettia plants thus produce more than a single flower.	 wheat Phytoplasma

Small brown pustules develop on the leaf blades in a random scatter distribution. They may group into patches in serious cases. Onset of the disease is slow but accelerated in temperatures above 15 °C (59 °F), making it a disease of the mature cereal plant in summer, usually too late to cause significant damage in temperate areas. Losses of between 5 and 20% are normal but may reach 50% in severe cases. Symptoms can range in severity from barely aesthetic to completely overrun on the leaf surface. On barberry leaf the disease appears as powdery yellow spots with aecia being dispersed from the underside of the leaf.	 wheat Puccinia triticina

Tan spot is found primarily on wheat, but is also found to infect other cereals and grasses including triticale, barley, and rye, but are less frequently affected. Other grass species effected by the pathogen include Siberian wheat grass, sand bluestem, meadow brome, sheep fescue, June grass, little bluestem, green foxtail, needle and thread, and tall wheatgrass. While these are not necessarily agriculture crop hosts such as wheat, the pathogen is able to form and survive on many grass hosts, which can eventually venture into wheat fields. Other important grass susceptible hosts include smooth brome which can be found in pastures, as well as quack grass that is found in the environment and considered a weed in many agricultural crops. Lesions typically appear on both upper and lower leaf surfaces, and initially are tan to brown specks. Eventually, the tan to brown specks expand to larger irregular, oval, lens-shaped, ellipse, tan blotches with a yellow ring around them. The yellow ring is often referred to as a halo, yellow discoloration as chlorosis, and browning/death of leaf tissue as necrosis. The development of a dark brown to black spot in the center the lesion is characteristic of the disease. If warmer temperatures and moist conditions persist, spores known as conidia will move up plant as secondary inoculum and can also infect head/spikes. Symptoms on the head are indistinct, but can cause brownish glumes, and grains can have a reddish appearance similar to the pathogen Fusarium.	 wheat Pyrenophora tritici-repentis

Pythium aphanidermatum is responsible for pre- and post-emergence damping off.  Pre-emergence damping off is when the seed is infected prior to germination.  This can result in poor or no germination, and is observable as a browning or rotting of the seed.  Post-emergence damping off takes place after germination and results in a thinning, water-soaked stem near the plant collar, which eventually causes the collapse of the plant.  P. aphanidermatum can also cause root rot.  Symptoms of root rot include stunted growth, chlorotic leaves, leaf drop, and wilting.  The infection begins at the root tip, and can cause the infected region to lose its protective outer layer, exposing the inner root to other pathogens	 wheat Pythium aphanidermatum

Pythium aristosporum causes root dysfunction in creeping bentgrass. Creeping bentgrass is a cool season grass that is found mainly on the putting greens, fairways, and tees of golf courses in the Northern United States due to its ability to be cut at very low heights (an eighth of an inch) and survive winters relatively unharmed. It is ideal for golf courses because it grows stoloniferously (with above ground shoots). This allows the grass grow laterally relatively quickly and form dense ground covers, making it ideal for golf courses.Like the disease name suggests, Pythium aristosporum affects the roots of creeping bentgrass. While there are no macroscopic signs, there are a few above and belowground symptoms that plants infected with this disease will exhibit. Aboveground, there will be dieback on the tip of the grass blade and the grass will turn from the lush green to a yellow/brown color typically in circular patches. Symptoms aboveground are secondary, and a result of the necrosis of the roots. Belowground, the roots will die back, turn a pale tan color, and lose their root hairs. These symptoms are systemic, as they involve the whole plant, and the mass of root tissue that is lost is a primary symptom because it is a direct result of the pythium. Listed are all macroscopic symptoms, or ones that can be seen without the use of magnification.Microscopically, hyphae are visible. The primary survival structures of pythium are oospores and sporangia. Oospores and sporangia are circular in shape. Antheridia and oogonia would also be present on hyphal cells. The oogonium is in the shape of a circle that is connected to the hyphae and the antheridium looks like a branch of hyphae that connects to the oogonium to produce oospores.	 wheat Pythium aristosporum

Pythium graminicola infects a wide range of hosts, including: bent grass, turmeric, cotton, barley, wheat, rice, beans, peas, and sugarcane. In particular Pythium graminicola is an important pathogen of graminaceous plants. As with many Pythium diseases, the most common symptom of Pythium graminicola is root/seed rot, which can then cause damping off. However, Pythium graminicola can also infect above ground tissue causing stalk rot in maize, foot rot of beans, leaf blight of grasses and feeder root necrosis in rice, sugarcane and maize. Diagnosis of Pythium graminicola can be made through observation of the above symptoms and the presence of oomycete structures, such as sporangia.	 wheat Pythium graminicola

Pythium myriotylum is a causal agent of soft root rot in economically important crops including peanuts, tomato, rye, wheat, oats, cucumber, soybean, sorghum, tobacco, cabbage, and maize. Pythium myriotylum causes pre-emergence damping off, it infects the seed and causes it to rot before plant growth.  This causes the plant seedling to become shriveled, soft, and brown. In a study done on soybeans, some symptoms that were seen were rotting of roots, diseased seedlings in the field, plus rotting and blight of seedlings. Pythium myriotylum can also cause post-emergence damping off in peanuts, resulting in discoloration of the seedlings and roots along with a water-soaked appearance in certain areas, these symptoms usually result in the death of the seedlings.	 wheat Pythium myriotylum

Pythium volutum causes a disease of turf grass. More specifically, Pythium volutum is a pathogen that affects creeping bentgrass. Creeping bentgrass is a turf type that is used in many putting greens on golf courses. The majority of incidents of infection have occurred in the southeastern US. This regional distribution is due to the pathogens ideal environmental conditions. When creeping bentgrass is infected by Pythium volutum, areas of chlorosis, wilt and drought stress can be observed. When an area of the creeping bentgrass is affected, large dead spots in the turf are seen. These symptoms are most often observed in the summer months when soil and surface temperatures are high. Because Pythium volutum is a root rotting pathogen, the ability of the creeping bentgrass to intake water is inhibited. When soil and surface temperatures are high, the plant will display symptoms of wilt and chlorosis, ultimately leading to death. Low fertility, low soil oxygen, and drought stress can increase the appearance of disease symptoms. While symptoms are most prevalent at warmer temperatures with drier conditions, infection occurs at lower temperatures with moister soil conditions.	 wheat Pythium volutum

Symptoms are most visible in the first fruiting year and are most apparent during the last couple of weeks before harvest.> Early symptoms will include reduced vigor and a decrease in the ability to survive high water conditions. Plants may experience lodging when water demand is high. Infected plants may continue to grow but will show aboveground symptoms including stunting, decreased fruit size, and numerous dead older leaves. Belowground symptoms include the deterioration of roots. Infected plants may have feeder and main roots that are smaller and covered in black lesions. Feeder roots will appear water soaked. In the early stages of infection, the core of the root will appear white while the exterior begins to show black lesions. In severely affected roots, both the core and the outer tissue of the root will be black [3]. Stained feeder roots may reveal masses of moniliform cells of R. fragariae. Characteristics of R. fragariae include hyphal branching pattern, dolipore septa, and moniliform resting cells. The binucleated hyphae directly penetrate the root.	 wheat Rhizoctonia cerealis

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 wheat Rhizoctonia solani

The symptoms caused by RHBV are seen across the whole spectrum of the infected plant, and can be different depending on the specific rice strain and the age of the plant upon infection. Plant tissues that are already mature upon infection remain symptomless, while immature tissues display a variety of symptoms. Approximately 4 days after infection, cream-colored spots ranging in size from 2-5 millimeters begin to appear on immature leaves. Eventually, infected leaves suffer chlorosis and the spots turn white as the leaves mature, giving the virus its namesake. As time goes on, chlorotic spots increase and form stripes, with entire leaves eventually succumbing to infection and becoming completely chlorotic. RHBV infection is systemic to the plant, and subsequent leaves will emerge displaying either heavy stripes or complete chlorosis. Tillers infected by RHBV will be stunted compared to normal, non-infected tillers. The panicles of infected tillers may be sterile, and often have malformed or discolored grains. Root size and number will reduce, with the roots eventually turning brown and dying completely.RHBV can also cause symptoms in its insect vector, infecting various organs and glands in the planthopper. These infections can have mild to severe results on the host, leading to organ failure, respiratory and digestive track failure, and muscle atrophy Such infections can possibly reduce the fertility or longevity of an infected female.	 wheat Rice hoja blanca virus

Typhula spp. impacts cool season turfgrass that experiences extended periods of snow cover. These species of hosts can include creeping bentgrass, annual ryegrass, and perennial ryegrass. Some of its more common hosts include fine fescue, tall fescue, and Kentucky bluegrass. Symptoms of the pathogen often manifest in all species the same way; as circular patches 6 inches to a foot in diameter of dead or damaged turfgrass. Sometimes patches can be as large as three feet and can merge into other patches. These “scars” in the turf can remain until May or early June. Dead plant tissue becomes matted and blades become grayish and brittle after drying. Signs of the disease can include visible mycelium on turf after snow clears and dark brown or black sclerotia structures embedded in dead plant tissue.	 wheat Snow mold

Early lesions are characterized by small, dark brown lesions 1 to 2 mm long without chlorotic margin. In susceptible genotypes, these lesions extend very quickly in oval to elongated blotches, light brown to dark brown in colour. They may reach several centimetres before coalescing and inducing the death of the leaf. Fruiting structures develop readily under humid conditions and are generally easily observed on old lesions. If spikelets are affected, it can result in shrivelled grain and black point, a dark staining of the embryo end of the seed. The small dark brown spots on the leaves contrast with the larger, light brown spots or blotches produced by tan spot and septoria avenae blotch.typical spot blotch sysmtom	 wheat Spot blotch (wheat)

Rhizoctonia solani sensu lato causes a wide range of commercially significant plant diseases. It is one of the fungi responsible for brown patch (a turfgrass disease), damping off (e.g. in soybean seedlings), black scurf of potatoes, bare patch of cereals, root rot of sugar beet, belly rot of cucumber, sheath blight of rice, and many other pathogenic conditions.  The fungus, therefore, has a wide host range and strains of R. solani may differ in the hosts they are able to infect, the virulence of infection, selectivity for a given host (which may range from nonpathogenic to highly virulent), the temperature at which infection occurs, the ability to develop in lower soil levels, the ability to form sclerotia, the growth rate, and survival in a certain area. These factors may not always be distinctive in every host that Rhizoctonia attacks or in every strain thereof.R. solani primarily attacks seeds of plants below the soil surface, but can also infect pods, roots, leaves, and stems. The most common symptom of Rhizoctonia is "damping off", or the failure of infected seeds to germinate. R. solani may invade the seed before it has germinated to cause this pre-emergent damping off, or it can kill very young seedlings soon after they emerge from the soil. Seeds that do germinate before being killed by the fungus have reddish-brown lesions and cankers on stems and roots.Various environmental conditions put plants at higher risk of infection. The pathogen prefers warmer, wet climates for infection and growth. Seedlings are most susceptible to disease in their early stages.Cereals in regions of England, South Australia, Canada, and India experience losses caused by R. solani every year. Roots are killed back, causing plants to be stunted and spindly. Other non-cereal plants in those regions can experience brown stumps as another symptom of the pathogen. R. solani can also cause hypocotyl and stem cankers on mature plants of tomatoes, potatoes, and cabbages. Strands of mycelium and sometimes sclerotia appear on their surfaces. Roots turn brown and die after a period of time. The best known symptom of R. solani is black scurf on potato tubers,  the scurf being the sclerotia of the fungus.	 wheat Thanatephorus cucumeris

Plants that are infected with Tilletia caries will be stunted anywhere from a few centimeters/inches below average to half the average height of a healthy plant. Additionally, the heads are slender and remain green longer than healthy heads. A symptom that is indicative of T. caries is the replacement of yellow heads with grey bunt balls in the head of infected plants. The infected bunt balls are about the same shape and size as normal kernels. When the mature kernels are broken, they are full of a black, powdery mass of the fungal spores. These fungal spores give off a distinctive fishy smell and are oily to the touch. By the time symptoms are able to be detected, the pathogen is systemic throughout the plant, making it difficult to detect the pathogen early in the infection period.	 wheat Tilletia caries

Karnal bunt attacks durum wheat, rye, and triticale, a hybrid of wheat and rye. Despite its preference for a common crop, Karnal bunt can be extremely difficult to diagnose in the field for many reasons. First, not all kernels on a plant head will be infected, and thus infected plants are not as readily identifiable. This distribution is the reason for Karnal bunt's being referred to as partial bunt. Another factor which makes Karnal bunt difficult to readily diagnose in the field is the fact that most infected kernels do not show symptoms prior to maturity.The disease produces dark color and a fishy smell on infected kernels. Usually only the germ end of the kernel will show symptoms, but occasionally the entire kernel may appear diseased. The darkening of the kernel is a result of the kernel tissue being converted in a teliospore mass by the fungus. Another symptom is referred to as the "canoe symptom" as in the process of replacing the healthy kernel with teliospores, the disease tends to hollow out host kernels, resulting in a canoe shape. While the dark teliospores of the fungus may be diagnostic, diagnosis of Karnal bunt poses the added difficulty of differentiating between Karnal bunt from other infections which also result in the aforementioned symptoms, such as black point, common bunt, and dwarf bunt.	 wheat Tilletia indica

Plants that are infected with Tilletia caries will be stunted anywhere from a few centimeters/inches below average to half the average height of a healthy plant. Additionally, the heads are slender and remain green longer than healthy heads. A symptom that is indicative of T. caries is the replacement of yellow heads with grey bunt balls in the head of infected plants. The infected bunt balls are about the same shape and size as normal kernels. When the mature kernels are broken, they are full of a black, powdery mass of the fungal spores. These fungal spores give off a distinctive fishy smell and are oily to the touch. By the time symptoms are able to be detected, the pathogen is systemic throughout the plant, making it difficult to detect the pathogen early in the infection period.	 wheat Tilletia tritici

Like other plant pathogenic viruses, TMV has a very wide host range and has different effects depending on the host being infected. Tobacco mosaic virus has been known to cause a production loss for flue cured tobacco of up to two percent in North Carolina. It is known to infect members of nine plant families, and at least 125 individual species, including tobacco, tomato, pepper (all members of the useful Solanaceae), cucumbers, a number of ornamental flowers, and beans including Phaseolus vulgaris and Vigna unguiculata. There are many different strains. The first symptom of this virus disease is a light green coloration between the veins of young leaves. This is followed quickly by the development of a "mosaic" or mottled pattern of light and dark green areas in the leaves. Rugosity may also be seen where the infected plant leaves display small localized random wrinkles. These symptoms develop quickly and are more pronounced on younger leaves. Its infection does not result in plant death, but if infection occurs early in the season, plants are stunted. Lower leaves are subjected to "mosaic burn"  especially during periods of hot and dry weather. In these cases, large dead areas develop in the leaves. This constitutes one of the most destructive phases of Tobacco mosaic virus infection. Infected leaves may be crinkled, puckered, or elongated. However, if TMV infects crops like grape and apple, it is almost symptomless. TMV is able  to infect and complete its replication cycle in a plant pathogenic fungus,TMV is able to enter and replicate in cells of C. acutatum, C. clavatum, and C. theobromicola, which may not be an exception, although it has neither been found nor probably searched for in nature.	 wheat Tobacco mosaic virus

Typhula blight is a major problem with cool season turfgrasses during winter months. These grasses include bentgrass, annual bluegrass, perennial ryegrass, fine fescue, and kentucky bluegrass. Typhula blight is also commonly referred to as gray snow mold due to the gray colored patches found after snow has melted. Gray snow mold affects all of its hosts in the same way. After the snow has melted, gray to grayish white patches of mycelium, six to twelve inches in diameter, can be found. Within the patches, diseased grass blades often reveal either rusty or reddish brown colored sclerotia up to five millimeters in diameter. Gray snow mold can cause thinning and possibly death of the infected host.	 wheat Typhula blight

Typhula incarnata is, along with Typhula ishikariensis, the causal agent of gray snow mold (also known as speckled snow mold or Typhula blight).  This plant pathogen destroys cool season turfgrasses grown in areas with extended periods of snowcover.  “Turfgrass hosts include but are not limited to: annual bluegrass, colonial bentgrass, creeping bentgrass, fine-leaf fescues, Kentucky bluegrass, perennial ryegrass, and tall fescue”.  Signs of the pathogen can be observed in the spring as circular grayish-brown patches, about 15 cm in diameter, of mycelium.  T. incarnata can be distinguished from T. ishkikariensis by its sclerotia.  T. incarnata has reddish-brown sclerotia with a diameter of 1.5–3 mm, whereas T. iskikariensis has black sclerotia with a diameter of 0.5-1.5 mm.	 wheat Typhula incarnata

Flag smut is a systemic disease that starts in young tissues. Early symptoms include "leprous" spots and bending or twisting of coleoptiles. Older plant leaves have white striations that eventually turn silvery gray, which is evidence of the pathogen's impending sporulation. Additionally, infected plants may have stunted growth, increased leaf production, sterile seeds, and failure to produce heads or have successful leaf expansion.	 wheat Urocystis agropyri

The major symptom of loose smut is the "smutted" grain heads, which contain masses of black or brown spores where the grain would normally be. The spores completely replace the grain head so that there is no grain to be harvested on infected plants. It may be possible to identify infected plants in the field before they reach the flowering stage by looking for plants which are taller and more mature than the rest of the field. The fungus causes infected plants to grow slightly taller and mature slightly sooner than the uninfected plants in the field. Since it must infect through the open florets, this gives the fungus a competitive advantage by allowing it to fall down to the healthy plants and ensuring that the fungus has a little extra time to produce and disperse spores before the florets of the healthy plants open.Ustilago nuda infects barley 'Hordeum vulgare L.' but there are many strains of Ustilago which infect many different cereal crops in a similar manner. Ustilago tritici, for example, is loose smut of wheat.	 wheat Ustilago segetum var. nuda

Wheat allergies are not altogether different from other food allergies or respiratory allergies. However two conditions, exercise/aspirin induced anaphylaxis and urticaria, occur more frequently with wheat allergies.Common symptoms of a wheat allergy include eczema (atopic dermatitis), hives (urticaria), asthma, "hay fever" (allergic rhinitis), angioedema (tissue swelling due to fluid leakage from blood vessels), abdominal cramps, nausea, and vomiting. Rarer symptoms include anaphylactic shock, anxiety, arthritis, bloated stomach, chest pains, depression or mood swings, diarrhea, dizziness, headache, joint and muscle aches and pains (may be associated with progressive arthritis), palpitations, psoriasis, irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), swollen throat or tongue, tiredness and lethargy, and unexplained cough.Reactions may become more severe with repeated exposure.	 wheat Wheat allergy

There are two main types of strains of WDV, which can be distinguished by their host preference for either wheat (Triticum aestivum) or barley (Hordeum vulgare). WDV can cause a range of symptoms in their host plant that are both localized and systemic. For example, the growth of the plant can be stunted, appearing bush-like. The plant can have fewer tillers (stems produced by grass) and leaves than normally observed. Small parts of the leaf may also be affected by chlorosis, which can eventually take over the entire leaf. The number of spikes on the plant may be reduced or existing ones may be stunted. WDV is transmitted by leafhoppers, which suck phloem sap from the vegetative sections of wheat with their mouthparts, passing on the virus. This is a circulative, non-propagative transmission process.A study done by the Department of Virology in Prague-Ruzyně, Czech Republic, observed the reaction of selected winter wheat varieties to autumnal infection with WDV. Results were measured by examining the reduction in height of the plant and the grain yield. The Ludwig wheat, a very susceptible variety, has a reduction in height between 78–97%. They also had a reduction of grain yield, which was nearly 100%. Other less susceptible wheat varieties, like Banquet, still had a height reduction of about 70%, with a grain yield reduction of about 36%. Each wheat variety had several symptoms including necrotic spots and dying leaves. This study showed that large impacts that WDV can have on the growth of wheat during the winter in terms of height and overall yield.	 wheat Wheat dwarf virus

Small brown pustules develop on the leaf blades in a random scatter distribution. They may group into patches in serious cases. Onset of the disease is slow but accelerated in temperatures above 15 °C (59 °F), making it a disease of the mature cereal plant in summer, usually too late to cause significant damage in temperate areas. Losses of between 5 and 20% are normal but may reach 50% in severe cases. Symptoms can range in severity from barely aesthetic to completely overrun on the leaf surface. On barberry leaf the disease appears as powdery yellow spots with aecia being dispersed from the underside of the leaf.	 wheat Wheat leaf rust

The primary host for Soil-borne wheat mosaic virus is the wheat plant, Triticum aestivum, although the virus can also affect rye, barley, and triticale.  Symptoms of the disease are primarily found on the leaves.  These symptoms include chlorotic leaf mottling or leaf mosaic, rosetting, stunting, streaking, and blotching of leaves. The mosaic and mottling symptoms may range from mild green to yellow, and leaves may sometimes also have dashes, parallel streaks, reddish streaking, and necrosis at the tips. Symptoms usually occur around the same time each year. This time is usually early spring, although in warmer climates it is possible that symptoms can emerge in late fall or early winter. Diseased fields are often uneven in appearance of symptoms especially in low wet areas.   This is because the drainage pattern of water on the field is used by the virus to infect plants.	 wheat Wheat soil-borne mosaic virus

Brown spot of rice is a plant fungal disease that usually occurs on the host leaves and glume, as well as seedlings, sheaths, stems and grains of adult host plants. Hosts include Oryza (Asian rice), Leersia (Cutgrass), Zizania (Wild rice), and other species as well such as Echinochloa colona (junglerice) and Zea mays (maize).Cochliobolus miyabeanus may cause a wide range of symptoms. General symptoms occurring on the hosts can be observed on many parts of the plant, including leaves, seeds, stems and inflorescences, along with the presence of brown spot. Discoloration of stems is another symptom develops from brown spot of rice disease. Oval-shaped brown spots are the fungal growth sign, which have grey colored center developed on host leaves. The fungus produces a toxin known as ophiobolin which inhibits the growth of roots, coleoptiles, and leaves. This pathogen has also been known to produce non-host specific toxins which suppress plant defenses, causing the characteristic brown spots on rice leaves.Dark coffee-coloured spots appear in the panicle and severe attacks cause spots in the grain and loss of yield and milling quality.Also, lesions on glumes and seeds occur if the pathogen associates with other fungi and insects. Such lesions may develop when favorable condition for sporulation is present.	 wild rice Bipolaris oryzae

Symptoms appear as small circular red/orange lesions with distinct margins on the upper portion of the stalks, leaves and seeds. The lesions can measure 2mm-2 cm and can contain dark brown fungal structures. Brown sunken areas can also appear on the stems.	 wild rice Colletotrichum sublineolum

P. erythroseptica is host specific, and typically only infects potatoes in moist soils. However, there are related pink rot species that infect raspberries, tomatoes, clover, and asparagus. Symptoms of the disease in potatoes can be seen on the tubers, above ground vegetation, as well as the roots of the potatoes. Tuber symptoms are the most obvious to diagnose. Occasionally, a darkened color can be observed on the skin covering the infected portion of the tuber. When a suspected tuber is cut open, a dividing line can be seen between the healthy tuber tissue and the infected tissue. Infection spreads from the stolon end of tubers and usually leads to a rubbery or spongy consistency. Pink rot is not considered a slimy soft rot, since most of the tissue stays intact The pinkish-salmon color of infected tubers can be seen once the phenolic compounds inside the tubers are exposed to oxygen for 15–30 minutes. After this time period the infected tissue turns to a brownish-blackish color  Aboveground symptoms can include chlorosis, stunting, and wilting of the plants. Roots and stolons can become blackened as well. The pink color is often used as the main symptom when making a firm diagnosis. The infected tubers often are watery and have a distinct smell. The potatoes plants themselves can sometimes be wilted however most symptoms are seen on the tuber. The majority of diseased tubers get infected while in storage. The majority of symptoms are seen inside the tuber except for the rubbery appearance that the outside may have. There are often cases that show symptoms other than rotting, these are often due to a pathogen other than P. erythroseptica infecting the tuber along with pink rot.	 wild rice Phytophthora erythroseptica

Magnaporthe salvinii (teleomorph), also known as Sclerotium oryzae (anamorph) and Nakataea sigmoidae (anamorph), is an ascomycete fungal pathogen that affects several rice and grass species, including:Echinochloa colona, jungle riceOryza sativa, common riceZizania aquatica, annual wild riceZizaniopsis miliacea, giant cutgrassvarious turf grassesThe first symptom that typically appears is a small, black, irregular lesion on the leaf sheath. Next, the lesion grows and penetrates the inner sheath until the leaf sheath becomes partially or totally rotted. The culm of the plant then shows black or brown discoloration and begins to shrivel. When the plant reaches maturity, the stem breaks due to the weakened, rotted stem. Sclerotia may be seen developing within the dead tissue of the rotted stem.	 wild rice Sclerotium oryzae

The incubation period for FMD virus has a range between one and 12 days. The disease is characterized by high fever that declines rapidly after two to three days, blisters inside the mouth that lead to excessive secretion of stringy or foamy saliva and to drooling, and blisters on the feet that may rupture and cause lameness. Adult animals may suffer weight loss from which they do not recover for several months, as well as swelling in the testicles of mature males, and cows' milk production can decline significantly. Though most animals eventually recover from FMD, the disease can lead to myocarditis (inflammation of the heart muscle) and death, especially in newborn animals. Some infected ruminants remain asymptomatic carriers, but they nonetheless carry the virus and may be able to transmit it to others. Pigs cannot serve as asymptomatic carriers.	 animal Foot-and-mouth disease